## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, Feb 6, 2019, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2019&amp;month=02&amp;day=06&amp;hour=11&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">11:00 EST</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>Topic: Planning Council Meeting Time: this is a recurring meeting Meet anytime</p>
<p>Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android: <a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320">https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320</a></p>
<p>Or iPhone one-tap :</p>
<p><code>   US: +16699006833,,928841320#  or +14086380968,,928841320#</code></p>
<p>Or Telephone:</p>
<p><code>   Dial(for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location)：</code><br />
<code>       US: +1 669 900 6833  or +1 408 638 0968  or +1 646 876 9923</code><br />
<code>       Canada: +1 647 558 0588</code><br />
<code>       France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188</code><br />
<code>       Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188</code><br />
<code>       United Kingdom: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088</code><br />
<code>       Switzerland: +41 (0) 31 528 0988</code><br />
<code>       Sweden: +46 (0) 8 4468 2488</code><br />
<code>       Denmark: +45 89 88 37 88</code><br />
<code>       Netherlands: +31 (0) 20 241 0288</code><br />
<code>   Meeting ID: 928 841 320</code><br />
<code>   International numbers available: </code><a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf"><code>https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf</code></a></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members

Planning Council Chair: Melanie Bats

### Eclipse Foundation

  - Wayne Beaton
  - Frederic Gurr
  - Mikael Barbero

### Strategic Members

  - CA Technologies
  - CEA LIST
  - Fujitsu Limited
  - IBM (Thomas Watson)
  - Obeo (Melanie Bats)
  - Oracle (Neil Hauge)
  - Payara Services Ltd.
  - Red Hat, Inc. (Nick Boldt)
  - Robert Bosch GmbH
  - SAP SE (Stephan Merker)
  - Tomitribe

### PMC Representatives

  - Eclipse Cloud Development PMC (Martin Lippert)
  - Eclipse Project PMC (Dani Megert)
  - Eclipse Enterprise for Java PMC
  - IoT PMC
  - Eclipse Modeling Project PMC (Ed Merks)
  - Mylyn (Application Lifecycle Tools) PMC (Sam Davis)
  - PolarSys PMC
  - Eclipse Runtime Project (RT) PMC
  - Eclipse Science PMC
  - Service Oriented Architecture PMC (Adrian Mos)
  - Eclipse Technology PMC (Gunnar Wagenknecht)
  - Tools Project PMC (Alexander Kurtakov)
  - Eclipse Web Tools Platform Project (WTP) PMC (Nitin Dahyabhai)

### Appointed Members

  - Appointed (Mikael Barbero)
  - Appointed (Markus Knauer)
  - Appointed (Mike Milinkovich)
  - Appointed (Sopot Cela)
  - Appointed (Wayne Beaton)

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

<https://wiki.eclipse.org/Planning_Council/2019-01-09>

## Attendance

## Regrets

## Agenda

  - Actions follow-up
  - Next release update
  - WildWebDeveloper project joining March SimRel
  - June & September schedules

## Actions follow-up

:\* Mélanie : Prepare the schedule for the June & September releases

  -

      -
        Added to the call agenda for validation : June
        [Plan](https://wiki.eclipse.org/SimRel/2019-06/Simultaneous_Release_Plan)
        & September proposal dates
        **DONE**

:\* Mélanie : Contact Wayne & Nick to get follow-up about the following
actions

  -

      -
        **DONE**

:\* Wayne: add item to calendar: validate participation list (on March
8); repeat for 2019-06 schedule

  -

      -
        March 8 (Milestone 3) seems too late. Don't recall agreeing to
        validate at that point (maybe assemble the list, but we need to
        validate sooner than that).
        [Post](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg16380.html)
        to cross-project-issues-dev.
        **DONE**

:\* Wayne : document participation validation process

  -

      -
        The participation requirements section was updated. A
        [note](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg16359.html)
        was sent out to cross-project-issues-dev.
        **DONE**

:\* Wayne : make sure that aggrcon file touching is a MUST DO in
<https://wiki.eclipse.org/SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements#State_intent_early>

  -

      -
        **DONE**

:\* **Nick** : to talk to Wayne re: automating the validation process
via a new job/script hosted on simrel JIPP

  -
    Bash script used by Wayne, manual process.
      -
        **DONE**

:\* **Wayne** to remove offsets from project pages, but keep it in the
simrel release req

  -
    Follow up with web dev gays.
      -
        **DONE**

:\* Wayne : to clean up PMC rep list

  -

      -
        The PMC and Strategic Member representatives are now accurate on
        the most recent meeting minutes page. Also added appointed
        members.
        **DONE**

:\* Wayne: prune inactive members, contact members/orgs to find new
participants -
<https://wiki.eclipse.org/Planning_Council/2019-01-09#Strategic_Members>

  -

      -
        Given the current focus of the Planning Council, Wayne don't
        think that we'll be able to get much interest from the companies
        and TLPs that are missing representatives. Wayne will ask the
        business development folks about whether or not Robert Bosche
        might be interested (and maybe CEA List). Eclipse Science may be
        interested as well; Wayne will send a note to their PMC list.
        Pretty sure that only Adrian Mos is inactive in the current
        list. Eclipse SOA should be terminated relatively soon, so just
        leave it.
        **DONE**

## Notes

### Next release update

Business as usual, M2 on Friday, everything is ok. Tiny little change
Mickaël Istria opened a bugzilla to remove the index.html as now
directory is browsable. It will be removed for the next coming release.
Dani asked if there is some news about marketing activities, if Sopot or
Thabang are taking care of it ?

### WildWebDeveloper

WildWebDeveloper project is joining March SimRel in M2.

### June & September schedules

Mélanie asked to review the June
[Plan](https://wiki.eclipse.org/SimRel/2019-06/Simultaneous_Release_Plan)
on the wiki & the September proposal dates on the Google calendar.

### Actions

  - Dani : will send an email to get updates about marketing activities
    for 2019-03.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    **DONE**

<!-- end list -->

  - All : Please review the June Plan wiki page and the Google calendar
    dates for 2019-09. Mélanie will send an email to ask everyone to
    approve the schedule.Actions follow-up
  - All : Review the updates done by Wayne on the participation process.