## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, Jan 9, 2018, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2018&amp;month=11&amp;day=07&amp;hour=11&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">11:00 EST</a> <strong>one week later than usual</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>Topic: Planning Council Meeting Time: this is a recurring meeting Meet anytime</p>
<p>Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android: <a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320">https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320</a></p>
<p>Or iPhone one-tap :</p>
<p><code>   US: +16699006833,,928841320#  or +14086380968,,928841320#</code></p>
<p>Or Telephone:</p>
<p><code>   Dial(for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location)：</code><br />
<code>       US: +1 669 900 6833  or +1 408 638 0968  or +1 646 876 9923</code><br />
<code>       Canada: +1 647 558 0588</code><br />
<code>       France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188</code><br />
<code>       Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188</code><br />
<code>       United Kingdom: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088</code><br />
<code>       Switzerland: +41 (0) 31 528 0988</code><br />
<code>       Sweden: +46 (0) 8 4468 2488</code><br />
<code>       Denmark: +45 89 88 37 88</code><br />
<code>       Netherlands: +31 (0) 20 241 0288</code><br />
<code>   Meeting ID: 928 841 320</code><br />
<code>   International numbers available: </code><a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf"><code>https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf</code></a></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members

Temporary Planning Council Chair: Nick Boldt Planning Council Chair:
Melanie Bats (returns Dec 2018)

### Eclipse Foundation

  - Wayne Beaton
  - Frederic Gurr
  - Mikael Barbero

### Strategic Members

  - CA Technologies
  - CEA LIST
  - Fujitsu Limited
  - IBM (Thomas Watson)
  - Obeo (Melanie Bats)
  - Oracle (Neil Hauge)
  - Payara Services Ltd.
  - Red Hat, Inc. (Nick Boldt)
  - Robert Bosch GmbH
  - SAP SE (Stephan Merker)
  - Tomitribe

### PMC Representatives

  - Eclipse Cloud Development PMC (Martin Lippert)
  - Eclipse Project PMC (Dani Megert)
  - Eclipse Enterprise for Java PMC
  - IoT PMC
  - Eclipse Modeling Project PMC (Ed Merks)
  - Mylyn (Application Lifecycle Tools) PMC (Sam Davis)
  - PolarSys PMC
  - Eclipse Runtime Project (RT) PMC
  - Eclipse Science PMC
  - Service Oriented Architecture PMC (Adrian Mos)
  - Eclipse Technology PMC (Gunnar Wagenknecht)
  - Tools Project PMC (Alexander Kurtakov)
  - Eclipse Web Tools Platform Project (WTP) PMC (Chuck Bridgham)

### Appointed Members

  - Appointed (Mikael Barbero)
  - Appointed (Markus Knauer)
  - Appointed (Mike Milinkovich)
  - Appointed (Sopot Cela)
  - Appointed (Wayne Beaton)

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

<https://wiki.eclipse.org/Planning_Council/December_5_2018>

## Attendance

Dani, Tom, Martin, Alex, Mélanie.

## Regrets

## Agenda

  - Next release update
  - JDK Support

## Notes

### Next release updates

M1 for Eclipse SDK will be done this week and the rest of the train will
follow. Lakshmi is in charge of the N\&N page and Sopot continue to be
the coordinative for the release page and in charge of being the link
with the Panning Council.

### JDK support

How Java 12 will be provided? It will be provided as the previous
release on the Marketplace. It is too short between the official Java 12
release and the Release Train to do the change. The platform remains on
Java 8 and 11 which are the LTS versions. The Java 12 will be integrated
in the Release Train for the June release. It will be the same for Java
13. If Java releases continue to be on time, we will discuss whether to
adapt our release plan to fit the Java releases in order to integrate
them.

## Actions

  - Mélanie : Prepare the schedule for the June & September releases
  - Mélanie : Contact Wayne & Nick to get follow-up about the following
    actions

:\* **AI**: Wayne: add item to calendar: validate participation list (on
March 8); repeat for 2019-06 schedule

:\* **AI**: Wayne document participation validation process

:\* **AI**: Wayne make sure that aggrcon file touching is a MUST DO in
<https://wiki.eclipse.org/SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements>

:\* **AI**: Nick to talk to Wayne re: automating the validation process
via a new job/script hosted on simrel JIPP

:\* **AI**: Nick update wiki re: Jan meeting on 9th, not 2nd (because
NYE / holidays)

::\* **DONE**

:\* **AI**: Wayne to remove offsets from project pages, but keep it in
the simrel release req

:\* **AI**: Wayne to clean up PMC rep list

:\* **AI**: Wayne prune inactive members, contact members/orgs to find
new participants -
<https://wiki.eclipse.org/Planning_Council/2019-01-09#Strategic_Members>