## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, September 4, 2019, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2019&amp;month=09&amp;day=04&amp;hour=11&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">11:00 EST</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>Topic: Planning Council Meeting Time: this is a recurring meeting Meet anytime</p>
<p>Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android: <a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320">https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320</a></p>
<p>Or iPhone one-tap :</p>
<p><code>   US: +16699006833,,928841320#  or +14086380968,,928841320#</code></p>
<p>Or Telephone:</p>
<p><code>   Dial(for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location)：</code><br />
<code>       US: +1 669 900 6833  or +1 408 638 0968  or +1 646 876 9923</code><br />
<code>       Canada: +1 647 558 0588</code><br />
<code>       France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188</code><br />
<code>       Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188</code><br />
<code>       United Kingdom: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088</code><br />
<code>       Switzerland: +41 (0) 31 528 0988</code><br />
<code>       Sweden: +46 (0) 8 4468 2488</code><br />
<code>       Denmark: +45 89 88 37 88</code><br />
<code>       Netherlands: +31 (0) 20 241 0288</code><br />
<code>   Meeting ID: 928 841 320</code><br />
<code>   International numbers available: </code><a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf"><code>https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf</code></a></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members

Planning Council Chair: Mélanie Bats

### Eclipse Foundation

  - Wayne Beaton
  - Frederic Gurr
  - Mikael Barbero

### Strategic Members

  - CA Technologies
  - CEA LIST
  - Fujitsu Limited
  - IBM (Thomas Watson)
  - Obeo (Melanie Bats)
  - Oracle (Neil Hauge)
  - Payara Services Ltd.
  - Red Hat, Inc. (Nick Boldt)
  - Robert Bosch GmbH
  - SAP SE (Stephan Merker)
  - Tomitribe

### PMC Representatives

  - Eclipse Cloud Development PMC (Martin Lippert)
  - Eclipse Project PMC (Dani Megert)
  - Eclipse Enterprise for Java PMC
  - IoT PMC
  - Eclipse Modeling Project PMC (Ed Merks)
  - Mylyn (Application Lifecycle Tools) PMC (Sam Davis)
  - PolarSys PMC
  - Eclipse Runtime Project (RT) PMC
  - Eclipse Science PMC
  - Service Oriented Architecture PMC (Adrian Mos)
  - Eclipse Technology PMC (Gunnar Wagenknecht)
  - Tools Project PMC (Alexander Kurtakov)
  - Eclipse Web Tools Platform Project (WTP) PMC (Nitin Dahyabhai)

### Appointed Members

  - Appointed (Mikael Barbero)
  - Appointed (Markus Knauer)
  - Appointed (Mike Milinkovich)
  - Appointed (Sopot Cela)
  - Appointed (Wayne Beaton)

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

<https://wiki.eclipse.org/Planning_Council/2019-06-05>

## Attendance

  - Nitin Dahyabhai
  - Mikaël Barbero
  - Wayne Beaton
  - Tom Watson
  - Martin Lippert
  - Fred Gurr
  - Mélanie Bats

## Regrets

  - Ed Merks

## Agenda

  - Simrel updates & MAc signing
  - Discuss 2020-03 & 2020-06 planning
  - Managing opt-in/opt-out
      - Is the participation page (e.g.
        [2019-09](https://projects.eclipse.org/releases/2019-09)
        considered useful?
  - Planning Council to be removed from the Eclipse Foundation Bylaws
    (and EDP)
      - Acknowledge that the Planning Council is entirely focused on
        Eclipse IDE Simultaneous Release

## Actions follow-up

None

## Notes

### Simrel update

RC1 due on friday RC2 next friday Hopefully GA will be ontime

Some improvements were done on the Simrel wiki pages :
<https://www.eclipse.org/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg03252.html>

### Mac signing

With the next MacOS release Catalina, each apps need to be authorized
despite we sign the Eclipse bnudle, it is not authorized. It is mostly
fixed for the next release but this means that no previous release will
run on new MacOS. So Mikaël is working on making the mac version being
authorised on Catalina. The latest build runs, there is still more
testing to do.

### Bylaws

Planning Council will be removed from the Eclipse Foundation Bylaws (and
EDP). We acknowledge that the Planning Council is entirely focused on
Eclipse IDE Simultaneous Release. So the idea is to move everything
under EPP project and just continue to work as an Eclipse project. Other
working groups are organized differently, they could be inspired by the
IDE Simrel (JakartaEE communities, Science working group) but that's
all.

### Managing opt-in/opt-out

Opt-in process is broken, it relies too heavily on Wayne (identifying
not listening projects, contact them, ...) We decided last year to be
based on the touch of the aggr file to determine who's in or out. In
anyway, after few cycles, Wayne thinks that it seems ridiculous. The
question is : do we need opt-in/opt-out ? How could we find how many
projects are listening ? Proposal was done by Nitin to automatize this
based on the PMI. We could add a section to declare that a release is
part of the xxxx-yy Simrel. The purpose is to make sure that projects
pay attention and to prevent that something will not break the build in
last stage.

We should discuss how to modify PMI ? Mikael proposed also to implement
checks. For example, that verify that a contribition is not older than
one year old, in order to find easily which project needs to be
contacted and see with them if we should remove them ?

Mélanie asked if Wayne will not be anymore in charge of contacting the
project, who will do that as it seems to be a very consuming task.
Should it be done by the planning council's chair ? Mélanie raised the
fact that she will not have the time to do that alone. So another idea
would be to share this on the planning council members. It was decided
to continue this discussion on the mailing list, Wayne will start at
thread.

### 2020-03 & 2020-06 schedules

2020-03

  - 17/01 M1
  - 07/02 M2
  - 28/02 M3
  - 06/03 RC1
  - 13/03 RC2
  - 13/03 - 17/03 Quiet Period
  - 18/03 GA

Fred: Dates LGTM\! Martin: Dates LGTM\!

2020-06

  - 17/04 M1
  - 08/05 M2
  - 29/05 M3
  - 05/06 RC1
  - 12/06 RC2
  - 12/06 - 16/06 Quiet Period
  - 17/06 GA

Martin: Dates LGTM\!

### Actions

  - Wayne starts a discussion on the mailing list about the
    opt-in/opt-out process & who will be in charge of ?
  - Mélanie starts a discussion on the mailing list to validate 2020-03
    & 2020-06 schedules