## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, March 6, 2019, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2019&amp;month=03&amp;day=06&amp;hour=11&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">11:00 EST</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>Topic: Planning Council Meeting Time: this is a recurring meeting Meet anytime</p>
<p>Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android: <a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320">https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320</a></p>
<p>Or iPhone one-tap :</p>
<p><code>   US: +16699006833,,928841320#  or +14086380968,,928841320#</code></p>
<p>Or Telephone:</p>
<p><code>   Dial(for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location)：</code><br />
<code>       US: +1 669 900 6833  or +1 408 638 0968  or +1 646 876 9923</code><br />
<code>       Canada: +1 647 558 0588</code><br />
<code>       France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188</code><br />
<code>       Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188</code><br />
<code>       United Kingdom: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088</code><br />
<code>       Switzerland: +41 (0) 31 528 0988</code><br />
<code>       Sweden: +46 (0) 8 4468 2488</code><br />
<code>       Denmark: +45 89 88 37 88</code><br />
<code>       Netherlands: +31 (0) 20 241 0288</code><br />
<code>   Meeting ID: 928 841 320</code><br />
<code>   International numbers available: </code><a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf"><code>https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf</code></a></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members

Planning Council Chair: Melanie Bats

### Eclipse Foundation

  - Wayne Beaton
  - Frederic Gurr
  - Mikael Barbero

### Strategic Members

  - CA Technologies
  - CEA LIST
  - Fujitsu Limited
  - IBM (Thomas Watson)
  - Obeo (Melanie Bats)
  - Oracle (Neil Hauge)
  - Payara Services Ltd.
  - Red Hat, Inc. (Nick Boldt)
  - Robert Bosch GmbH
  - SAP SE (Stephan Merker)
  - Tomitribe

### PMC Representatives

  - Eclipse Cloud Development PMC (Martin Lippert)
  - Eclipse Project PMC (Dani Megert)
  - Eclipse Enterprise for Java PMC
  - IoT PMC
  - Eclipse Modeling Project PMC (Ed Merks)
  - Mylyn (Application Lifecycle Tools) PMC (Sam Davis)
  - PolarSys PMC
  - Eclipse Runtime Project (RT) PMC
  - Eclipse Science PMC
  - Service Oriented Architecture PMC (Adrian Mos)
  - Eclipse Technology PMC (Gunnar Wagenknecht)
  - Tools Project PMC (Alexander Kurtakov)
  - Eclipse Web Tools Platform Project (WTP) PMC (Nitin Dahyabhai)

### Appointed Members

  - Appointed (Mikael Barbero)
  - Appointed (Markus Knauer)
  - Appointed (Mike Milinkovich)
  - Appointed (Sopot Cela)
  - Appointed (Wayne Beaton)

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

<https://wiki.eclipse.org/Planning_Council/2019-02-06>

## Attendance

Alex, Dani, Wayne, Fred, Mélanie, Thomas, Nitin

## Regrets

Nick

## Agenda

  - Actions follow-up
  - Next release update
  - June & September schedules
  - Wiki updates

## Actions follow-up

:\* Dani : will send an email to get updates about marketing activities
for 2019-03.

:: **DONE** Sopot is taking care of that with the foundation.

:\* All : Please review the June Plan wiki page and the Google calendar
dates for 2019-09.

:: **DONE** Mélanie will send an email to ask everyone to approve the
schedule.

:: **TODO** Review by all

:: All : Review [SimRel-2019-09 wiki
page](https://wiki.eclipse.org/Category:SimRel-2019-09)

:: **DONE** by Dani

:: Mélanie prepare the [SimRel-2019-09 wiki
page](https://wiki.eclipse.org/Category:SimRel-2019-09)

:: **DONE**

:\* All : Review the updates done by Wayne on the participation process.

  -

      -
        **DONE**

## Notes

### Next release update

Platform ready to release RC2. Orbit URL was not ready, so a rebuild
will be needed but everything is ok.

### June & September schedules

  - [2019-06](https://wiki.eclipse.org/Category:SimRel-2019-06)

<!-- end list -->

  - [2019-09](https://wiki.eclipse.org/Category:SimRel-2019-09)

<!-- end list -->

  - For details see the Google calendar :

<https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=gchs7nm4nvpm837469ddj9tjlk@group.calendar.google.com&dates=20181001%2F20181231&hl=en&mode=AGENDA>

### Wiki updates

Mélanie has merged the SimRel FAQs
[Simultaneous_Release_FAQ](https://wiki.eclipse.org/SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_FAQ)
&
[Simultaneous_Release_Cycle_FAQ](https://wiki.eclipse.org/SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Cycle_FAQ)
to only one :
<https://wiki.eclipse.org/SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Cycle_FAQ>
Auto-redirection was done.

Mélanie has updated to remove the "yearly" notion:
<https://wiki.eclipse.org/Simultaneous_Release_Roles#Simultaneous_Release_Roles>

If you detect other wiki pages that should be updated, send an email to
Mélanie.

### Track inactive projects

Wayne raises the fact that a handfull of projects are not paying
attention and does not meet the requirements. The idea is that projects
should update their aggrcon file to declare that they are in the SimRel.
If they do not modify their aggrcon, they will be out. Today, Wayne is
taking care of chasing these different projects, pushing a gerrit
request to remove the aggrcon file of these projects and then following
the thread. It is time consuming for him. It was proposed to
automatically declare the project as out if the aggr file was not touch.
That is not so simple as removing a project could have some important
consequences for other projects depending on it. There is a
communication aspect that should be taken into consideration. It was
also proposed to have a clear process to declare the project intent to
be in. It already existed in the past and it was not so successful. The
idea is to trying to identify who is not taking care instead of
punishing everyone with a new process. Fred proposed to assist Wayne on
the aggcon file tracking. Another possibility is to turn off the build a
week before removing them officially, in order to detect the
consequences.

### Actions

  - Need a chair for the next call on April 3rd, Mélanie will not be
    able to organize/join : Martin Lippert proposed to take care of the
    call. Thanks again Martin\!
  - Mélanie will prepare the plan for the 2019-09 release.
  - All : Review the dates for the 2019-06 & 2019-09 and approve by mail
    on the mailing list.