## Notes

### 2021-09 status

M2 cancellation good track Jonah still have some issues with signing,
takes a long time to do the signing especially with Mac Other issue with
splashscreen, rebuilt for EPP RC1A by platform team RC2A fixing crash on
windows 10 Should be able to do it for RC2 Bugs open that should be
fixed, Labor day in NA

### Explains the role and responsibilities of the WG steering committee vs planning council

Extract from the WG charter: "The Planning Council is responsible for
establishing a roadmap and coordinated release plan that balances the
many competing requirements. The release plan describes the themes and
priorities that focus these releases, and orchestrates the dependencies
among project plans.

#### Powers and Duties

The Planning Council is responsible for managing the Eclipse IDE
Simultaneous Release, cross-project planning, facilitating the
mitigation of architectural issues and user interface conflicts, and all
other coordination and integration issues. The Planning Council
discharges its responsibility via collaborative evaluation,
prioritization, and compromise. The Planning Council has the following
responsibilities:

  - Planning and requirements gathering and management;
  - Setting the names and dates of Eclipse IDE product releases;
  - Setting, evolving, and enforcing the policies and procedures for
    participation of Eclipse open source projects that contribute
    content to the Eclipse IDE Simultaneous Release;
  - Setting, evolving, and enforcing policies and procedures for the
    creation and distribution of Eclipse IDE products, along with all
    intermediate products;
  - Setting, evolving, and enforcing policies and procedures governing
    supporting products (e.g., marketplaces, statistics gathering and
    data collection services, ...);
  - Establishing practices to mitigate risk and ensure overall quality
    of the processes and resulting products;
  - Providing technical guidance and oversight for the working group’s
    projects;
  - Establishing developer communication channels; and
  - Establishing user support channels."

The Planning Council should work with the Program Manager as WG SC does
not get involved in execution.

#### Composition

Members of the Planning Council are generally senior technical experts.
The Planning Council is composed of:

  - One representative designated by the Project Management Committee
    (PMC) for every top level project for which at least one subproject
    is a simultaneous release participant;
  - One representative designated for each Strategic Member; and
  - Additional representatives as approved by the Steering Committee.

The Planning Council elects a chair of the Planning Council. This chair
is elected among the members of the Council. They will serve from April
1 to March 31 of each calendar year, or until their successor is elected
and qualified, or as otherwise provided for in this Charter.

#### Discussion

WG SC purpose supports what the PC does and what the PC proposes, the PC
decides what should be done The Program Manager will not decide, it is
important to make clear that "PC decides", the term manager could be
badly interpreted. The Program Manager job is to take care of each
participants of the simrel, helping all the projects who want being part
of it He has also a release engineer technical role.

During next steering committee meeting we should clarify:

  - Flow of the power, who decides? Should be express explicitely
  - Who really decides what the Program Manager will do ?
  - Who will manage him? SC / PC ?

It is clear for the PC members that the Steering Committee do not want
to take technical decision, this is the PC role? The SC provides High
level statement. The PC refines them as technical things to be done. The
PM job is to do it. This implies a good cooperation between SC and PC.

### Jar signing

The WG intent about that is "Build artifacts made available at the
Eclipse Foundation are verifiably the ones built by respective
projects."

Ed will create a bugzilla about signing in order that everyone will give
his requirements. Then the Planning Council would be able to take a
technical decision.

### Review Simrel issues list to see what would be the top 3 issues and the actions that should be done

Please all, review the Simrel issues list to add what is missing
according to the last Simrel 2021-06/2021-09
<https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1SsbtmbhKp2Q19QeXLRcxk2bWd7U94GgAtiBWuuOpz1M/edit?usp=sharing>

The spreadsheet will be updated to be able to vote on each issues to
consider which ones are the most important, every PC members will have
1, 2, 3 points to distribute between 3 issues.

Next call we will discuss the most rated issues to see what actions
would be needed.