## Notes

### 2022-09 Release

  - 2022-09 release going fine and on schedule for EPP to be built
    tomorrow
  - Ed has been keeping on top of numerous issues (all resolved), such
    as:
      - Platform's RC1/RC2 getting fully submitted\*\*\* RAP
        contribution missing PGP signatures (resolved very quickly
        thanks to quick response from RAP project)
      - Signature issue re: Jetty between Platform and WTP. Currently
        resolved because Platform's contribution goes into SimRel
        because it is listed first in the .aggr file.
  - Nitin fixed the issue of out of date bugzilla links in the packages
  - m2e has a major new version.
      - This means some installs will fail to update depending on what
        third-party m2e extensions are installed. This may lead to bug
        reports/etc of fail to upgrade problems.
      - Some updates aren't really necessary, simply updating the Maven
        plug-in means that extensions aren't needed.
      - See
        <https://www.eclipse.org/m2e/documentation/m2e-making-maven-plugins-compat.html>
        for more info

### IDE WG Funded Development Effort

  - The current work is going well with the budget available, just that
    it is taking longer than originally hoped. No budget implications as
    delay is calendar only, not effort required.
  - Martin and Leif will discuss Chromium offline to see next steps
  - Future items for IDE WG to consider funding:
      - review and accepting contributions
          - e.g. are there past active committers willing to review
            changes?
      - Add "obsolete" to p2 so that old stuff can be removed that does
        not work - modelled on RPM
          - The hope is this is to resolve future issues like the m2e
            upgrade problem so that packages can be marked obsolete and
            be removed as part of an upgrade

### 2023 schedule

  - Aim is to follow the same schedule in 2023-03 and 2023-06 as the
    2022 schedules
  - **Action (Jonah)** Create
    [SimultaneousRelease](../Simultaneous_Release.md) pages for the
    releases and send them to planning council for approval