## Notes

  - Actions completed from
    [2022-05-04](Planning_Council/2022-05-04.md)
    meeting:
      - Membership is now mostly accurate. Some of the PMCs that
        participate in SimRel don't have active representation, but no
        one from those PMCs has stepped forward to participate. Follow
        <https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipse-wg/ide-wg/eclipseide.org/-/issues/24>
        for the migration of the page too.
      - While the bug Martin raised bug with Buildship project - see
        <https://github.com/eclipse/buildship/issues/1147> - has had no
        response, the Buildship project is still active. Therefore, like
        much of open source, if Issue \#1147 is a problem for someone
        they should work with the Buildship committers to get it
        resolved.
  - Discussion on progress for 2022-06
      - Everything on track
      - Minor issue of jboss still not being accessible from Eclipse
        means this gerrit cannot be applied still -
        <https://git.eclipse.org/r/c/orbit/orbit-recipes/+/193354>
          - **Action (Jonah)** Submit the gerrit once (if?) jboss issue
            resolved
          - **Action (Jonah)** Submit bug to Ant folks related to
            comment ' Central has javax.media:jai-core:1.1.3 but only
            com.sun.media:jai-codec:1.1.2_01' in
            <https://search.maven.org/artifact/org.apache.ant/ant-jai/1.10.12/jar>
  - Leif filled us in on Yatta's proposed Electron based integration for
    SWT browser
      - The initial working version is here -
        <https://github.com/YattaSolutions/org.eclipse.swt.browser.electron>
      - The advantage of this approach is that browser rendering is
        decoupled from SWT (using IPC between electron and SWT
        processes)
      - Yatta intends to contribute this to the EF
      - The disadvantage is that Electron needs to be shipped with your
        SWT application to take advantage of it. For lightweight SWT
        applications (as opposed to the full Eclipse IDE) this may be
        unfeasible as SWT is currently just a couple of megabytes and
        adding in Electron would add in \~100MB. Therefore the SWT
        integration with OS provided web browser components would need
        to remain (e.g. Webkit, Edge, etc)
      - Some of the remaining issues (particularly macOS performance
        with Retina) could use some dedicated development effort (see
        next section of notes) and would require someone with expertise
        in this area to resolve.
      - Read more and get involved with the project at the GitHub link
        above.
  - Funded Dev Efforts going forward
      - The initial round of funded dev effort (last year's "Top 3") is
        well progressed now with all items having been started, and some
        completed
      - Now is time for planning council to start considering what are
        the next items the steering committee should fund
      - **Action (Jonah)** Add this to agenda of next meeting
  - Composite repos
      - Following on from discussion on
        <https://www.eclipse.org/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg19223.html>
        we decided to in SimRel and EPP stop having the composites
        contain multiple milestones as children.
      - **Action (Jonah)** Announce this on cross-project-issues
  - PGP status
      - PGP is working well, many bundles are using it
      - TM4E is signing one bundle with PGP, but as the public key was
        not previously release users updating from 2022-03 to 2022-06
        will be prompted to trust that key
      - Ed updated Oomph catalogs to trust keys coming from Eclipse
        projects, so users installing 2022-06 will not see this prompt.
        See <https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=580006#c2>
        for more details