## Notes

  - Brief PGP discussion on current state which is positive. See
    <https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipse-wg/ide-wg/ide-wg.eclipse.org/-/issues/11>
    for more details.
  - Follow up on vote from last meeting was successful with +1 from all
    respondents:
    <https://www.eclipse.org/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg03542.html>
  - "Top 3" items now tracked in gitlab:
    <https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipse-wg/ide-wg/ide-wg.eclipse.org/-/issues/19>
  - 2022-03 status update:
      - MPC is actively working on moving to httpclient5 now that
        ECF/platform are using httpclient5
      - Orbit does not have any active builds, platform using I-build.
        **Action (Jonah)** to reach out to Roland to discuss handling
        builds (aka promotions) of Orbit
  - 2022-06 planning:
      - Remove Mylyn - **Action (Jonah)** send reminder to
        cross-project-issues ahead of time and remove in 2022-06 M1
        phase
      - Remove Orbit direct contribution to SimRel - **Action (Jonah)**
        send reminder to cross-project-issues ahead of time and remove
        in 2022-06 M1 phase
      - Remove CVS part of Orbit - **Action (Jonah)** to follow up on
        Alex's suggestion (especially as Jonah plans to reach out to
        Roland, see above)
        <https://www.eclipse.org/lists/orbit-dev/msg05539.html>
  - Membership discussion deferred to next meeting