### Actions from last meeting

-   **Action (Jonah)**: Accessibility plan - see
    <https://wiki.eclipse.org/Planning_Council/2023-05-03#Accessibility>
-   **Action (Jonah)**: Update SimRel participation rules must-dos and
    circulate for approval.

### Discussions

-   Status update on 2023-09
-   Reviewed dev efforts board - see
    <https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipse-wg/ide-wg/ide-wg-dev-funded-efforts/ide-wg-dev-funded-program-planning-council-top-issues/-/boards/1208>
-   Discussed new logging work - see
    <https://github.com/eclipse-packaging/packages/issues/27#issuecomment-1708511762>
    for summary
-   **Action (Jonah)** Add a N&N entry somewhere about the changes
    needed to get logging working