### Actions from last meeting

- **Action (Jonah)**: [Accessibility plan](2023-05-03.md#accessibility)
- **Action (Jonah)**: Update [SimRel participation rules](../SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements.md) must-dos and circulate for approval.
- **Action (Jonah)** Jonah to research [GLCanvas on Wayland](https://github.com/eclipse-platform/eclipse.platform.swt/issues/806) and turn into a dev effort
- **Action (Jonah)** Contact Wayne for EF perspective **DONE** See notes below
- **Action (Jonah)** make dev effort entry  Renew [Dev Effort for Platform/Tycho releng](https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipse-wg/ide-wg/ide-wg-dev-funded-efforts/ide-wg-dev-funded-program-planning-council-top-issues/-/issues/14) **DONE** [See #33 on dev funded efforts board](https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipse-wg/ide-wg/ide-wg-dev-funded-efforts/ide-wg-dev-funded-program-planning-council-top-issues/-/issues/33)
- **Action (Jonah)** make dev effort for wiki migration / doc update **DONE** [See #34 on dev funded efforts board](https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipse-wg/ide-wg/ide-wg-dev-funded-efforts/ide-wg-dev-funded-program-planning-council-top-issues/-/issues/34)
- **Action (all)** test p2 changes in your corp network and report issues asap. **DONE** [Changes were made](https://github.com/eclipse-packaging/packages/issues/81) in 2023-12 Oomph and EPP

### Discussions

- what is the scope of the planning council (see [Planning Council section of charter](https://www.eclipse.org/org/workinggroups/eclipse-ide-charter.php))
  - Some discussions on this to head into tomorrows in person Steering Committee meeting
  - Main themes are around sharing and visibility:
    - who (and which companies) are going in which direction
    - not everyone involved in projects are involved in IDE WG, some are only in planning council and some are in neither
    - boards, like dev efforts, to increase visibility of what is happening across the IDE
    - quarterly meetup open to all for everyone to share their plans
  - who should be the chair going forward, and what should the leadership role involve?

- Java 21 (and 22) discussions
  - Wording changed in 2023-12 release around Java 21 support
  - RedHat investigating option related to javac going forward for Java 22 support
  - RedHat extension will likely use I-builds of JDT
  - Microsoft just published 6 month roadmap for Java support in VSCode ([link](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/java/2-5-million-java-developers-on-visual-studio-code/))

- some concerns were shared about the impact of small dev efforts on willingness for others in the community to be involved.
