## Notes

### Actions from last meeting

-   **Action (Jonah)**: Make the new issues in
    [gitlab](https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipse-wg/ide-wg/ide-wg-dev-funded-efforts/ide-wg-dev-funded-program-planning-council-top-issues)
    \*\*DONE\*\*
-   **Action (Jonah)**: Make
    [SimultaneousRelease](../Simultaneous_Release.md) pages for 2023-09
    and 2023-12

Actions from Previous meetings

-   Carried forward **Action (Jonah)**: Update SimRel participation
    rules must-dos and circulate for approval.

### Discussions

-   Discussed removal of Navigator, an issue that the Eclipse PMC will
    be discussing at their next meeting.
    <https://github.com/eclipse-platform/eclipse.platform.ui/issues/644>
    (the eclipse-pmc email archive is broken so I can't list to the
    emails on this topic there)
-   Confirmed that [SimultaneousRelease](../Simultaneous_Release.md) pages
    for 2023-09 and 2023-12 are ok. **Action (Jonah)**: Create google
    calendar entries
-   No issues identified for 2023-06 M1 that is coming up next week.
-   Discussion about how to manage API across all of SimRel. Items
    discussed:
    -   Perhaps use japicmp across all of SimRel
    -   All projects build against latest dependencies (and all the
        issues related to that)
    -   How to handle removal of APIs, e.g. how better to
        handle/generate an email like this in the future:
        <https://www.eclipse.org/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg19481.html>