### Actions from last meeting

- **Action (Jonah)**: [Accessibility plan](2023-05-03.md#accessibility)
- **Action (Jonah)**: Update [SimRel participation rules](../SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements.md) must-dos and circulate for approval.
- **Action (Jonah)** Remote / hybrid for Community Day. Jonah to check with organizers **DONE** No hybrid or recordings for community day from EF
- **Action (Jonah)** Jonah to try and touch base with various community members at community day and discuss release schedules. **DONE**
- **Action (Jonah)** Jonah to research [GLCanvas on Wayland](https://github.com/eclipse-platform/eclipse.platform.swt/issues/806) and turn into a dev effort

### Discussions

- Java 21 discussions
  - Concerns discussed about Java 21 not being complete
  - Can we even call our support Java 21 because it is incomplete
  - What options are there? e.g. include Eclipse Project 4.29 again in 2023-12, delay 2023-12
  - **Action (Jonah)** Contact Wayne for EF perspective

- Renew [Dev Effort for Platform/Tycho releng](https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipse-wg/ide-wg/ide-wg-dev-funded-efforts/ide-wg-dev-funded-program-planning-council-top-issues/-/issues/14). Planning council have found this useful so far.
  - **Action (Jonah)** make dev effort entry

- Discuss Eclipse Project [wiki migration](https://github.com/eclipse-platform/eclipse.platform/issues/747)
  - There is lack of clarity about exactly what the technical work needed here is
  - Not a "simple" migration as the outdated info on the wiki needs to be dealt with too
  - Someone with knowledge of the project probably needed to make decisions of how different pieces of information are hosted
  - **Action (Jonah)** make dev effort for wiki migration / doc update

- p2 change from apache to java httpclients
  - Ed (ahead of meeting) shared concern that the change may affect corporate networks disproportionately.
  - No reports of issues have arrived at Eclipse Platform yet
  - **Action (all)** test p2 changes in your corp network and report issues asap.

The following items were deferred to a future meeting as this meeting did not have the full attendance due to it being scheduled on holiday for many council members.
  - what is the scope of the planning council (see [Planning Council section of charter](https://www.eclipse.org/org/workinggroups/eclipse-ide-charter.php))
  - who should be the chair going forward
