### Actions from last meeting

- **Action (Jonah)**: [Accessibility plan](2023-05-03.md#accessibility)
- **Action (Jonah)**: Update [SimRel participation rules](../SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements.md) must-dos and circulate for approval.

### Discussions

- Reviewed outstanding items (recorded above)
- Discussed who is attending EclipseCon
- Community day IDE WG presentation with Planning Council update: <https://wiki.eclipse.org/EclipseCon2023_CommunityDay_EclipseIDEWorkingGroupAndEclipsePlatform>
  - Remote / hybrid for this part of this. **Action** to check with organizers (Jonah)
- 2024-03 and 2024-06 schedules
  - Should we align with Java releases? How does Eclipse deal with slippages?
  - Can we use EclipseCon community day to talk to Temurin people. **Action** Jonah to try and touch base with various community members
  - Time to discuss more frequent releases **Action** Jonah to bring up discussion at various forums at EclipseCon
  - For 2024-03/-06 keep to same schedule we have had as a starting point
- Reviewed [dev efforts board](https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipse-wg/ide-wg/ide-wg-dev-funded-efforts/ide-wg-dev-funded-program-planning-council-top-issues/-/boards/1208) and discussed new work
  - [GLCanvas on Wayland](https://github.com/eclipse-platform/eclipse.platform.swt/issues/806) 
    - Good starting task for SWT, not sure if anything in the IDE uses this. **Action** Jonah to research that and turn into a dev effort
  - [ECF Support for p2](https://github.com/eclipse-platform/eclipse.platform.releng.aggregator/pull/1389#issuecomment-1734270639) in context of [httpclient changes for p2](https://github.com/eclipse-equinox/p2/issues/205)
    - There is no action on this now as the Platform's longer term plan is to remove ECF from the stack for the simple file transfers.
    - This will depend on the success of [httpclient changes for p2](https://github.com/eclipse-equinox/p2/issues/205)
- Jetty State
  - Platform moving to Jetty 12, knock on effect for downstream consumers
  - Ed working on making p2 repo for jetty and dealing with transitive dependencies
- Java 21
  - [Current rule](../SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements.md#execution-environment-partially-tested) is the release 6-9 months after the Java LTS release that SimRel can use it. 
  - 2024-06 SimRel participants can use Java 21 - announcement after rules moved to github and final check with planning council
