### Actions from last meeting

- **Action (Jonah)**: [Accessibility plan](2023-05-03.md#accessibility)
- **Action (Jonah)**: Update [SimRel participation rules](../SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements.md) must-dos and circulate for approval.

### Discussions

### Reminder of new timing of meeting

- It was holiday day for much of Europe today, so lots of people couldn't attend. We'll continue to monitor at future meetings to make sure the new time is a good fit

### Changing how SimRel works (push vs pull) discussion

- Generally discussed issues of projects not pushing
- Pushing is still seen as the best way for projects to actively notify that their project works with SimRel
- However, if IDE WG needs some projects to be pulled to keep them in SimRel we can consider that

### Status of 2024-06

- Ed to test a little more updating to newest version when Java isn't updated. In particular that the *Preferences* -> *Install/Update* -> *Verify provisioning operation is compatible with currently running JRE* functions as expected. This additional testing is a result of Ed noticing an install he had updated bundles without error to ones with BREE of Java 21, but on restart the IDE doesn't start because in use JRE was Java 17 still.
- JustJ EPP p2 site to update at same time as 2024-06 release.

### Planning for 2024-09/-12

- The [Wiki pages](https://github.com/eclipse-simrel/.github/blob/main/wiki/Simultaneous_Release.md) were reviewed with some fixes applied, therefore this schedule is deemed to have been accepted and Jonah will make the updates to the shared google calendar.

### Onboarding mentor update

- Update shared from IDE WG Steering Committee meeting.
