# 2025-06-04 Meeting Notes

## Agenda

- Status 2025-06
- PHP Deprecation


## Minutes

### PHP Deprecation
- Shutdown in December: tps://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/helpdesk/-/wikis/PHP-for-project-websites-deprecation-plan
- We shouldn't do a mass migration like for the wiki
  - Avoid migration of outdated information
  - Avoid unnecessary efforts
- Migration should be done on client side
  - E.g., using JavaScript
  - Server-side migration should be avoided to not run into same situation again
- Manoj proposes to have his team create an overview of what needs to be done
  - To be collected in issue(s)
  - Then decide in planning council ...
    - what needs to be migrated now (probably overview and build pages)
    - what can be migrated later on demand (if someone comes across a broken page and needs it)

### Status 2025-06
- Good overall status
- Duplicates do not seem to be problematic
- Third-party requirements in SimRel contributions
  - Proposal to tighten constraints of SimRel contributions to not include third-party dependencies
    - Add to SimRel requirements now
    - Start disabling projects that do not follow the rule in the December release cycle
  - Ed will propose a rewording of the requirements and send around to the planning council members for review


## Next Meeting

Next meeting will be on July 2nd, 2025.
