## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, April 10, 2013, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2013&amp;month=04&amp;day=10&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1300 Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers:</p>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-877-369-7806</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Steffen Pingel</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC) (appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Kaloyan Raev</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Igor Fedorenko</p></td>
<td><p>Sonatype (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Tiede</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Rajeev Dayal</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Kepler

### M7

  - Issues?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *No issues raised*

## EclipseCon face-to-face follow-through

  -
    Continue discussion from EclipseCon face-to-face
      -
        [March_24_2013](Planning_Council/March_24_2013.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Come up with actionable items
    Solicit volunteers to do the actions

<!-- end list -->

  -
    The following are notes/actions from discussing the specific items.

### Policy on new releases joining SR

dw to update current policy in FAQ with the additional detail.

### Build reproducibility

dw to come up with "perfect example". Add to wiki, send to Wayne and
Than, and see if some way "CBI" maven task could produce, from template,
as part of build output.

dw better educate. Give perfect example on wiki. Emphasize non-changing
repos. Give "acceptable" example on wiki. Give "unacceptable" examples
on wiki.

dw create "report of changes" from one build to another, one repo to
another, so a) individual projects could see if things changed when they
should not have; b) PMCs, Team Leads, Planning council could better
observe "big picture" of how much change there was, especially related
to changes in build input files.

dw start to tag build file project, each build (so we could diff build
files).

wayne to add item to release review that "there must be a retention
policy" (it should cover how long repos stay around, such as milestone
repos, and also via ?education? emphasis that it must be
"non-changing".) And then Planning Council can add extra rules for sim.
release, if necessary.

### Release train rules

John and Neil volunteered to improve. The idea is to provide briefer
version, but still (probably via hyperlinks?) allow readers to find out
"reasons" for a rule. This would be for Luna (due in Fall, after Kepler
release).

### Release train rhythm

We don't anticipate any changes to rhythm, but perhaps more
emphasis/education on milestones. (Perhaps, eventually, add idea of "1
milestone" to SR cycles).

Wayne volunteered to add suggestion/idea to GSOC database to make some
user friendly way that users could say "I want to follow beta releases"
... this would add the "current" development stream URL to update sites,
so they'd get updates from milestones, without having to know about it,
and manually add it.

### The release train and RT

No actions came from this discussion. It was thought that if/when RT
projects begin to *need* coordination, that we are certainly open to
changes in "rules" that make it more accommodating. (But ... we don't
know if any concrete rules that are inhibitors (all can have exceptions)
... but the mere act of coordinating schedules, if there is no need to
coordinate with others, is inhibiting). If RT stacks are all relatively
independent of IDE, and each other, they often prefer to set their own
schedules, etc. There might be a day when there could be some
"marketing" advantage, say to announce large maven central update, or
something, might be interesting to Rt projects ... but, not clear its
needed now.

### Orbit

The Orbit Project Lead (dw) agreed to a plan for a plan ... a plan will
be created after Kepler release, by end of August (since July often a
"slow" month) ... and implemented in the months after that.

## Next Meeting

  - May 1, 2013 - First Wednesday Meeting

## Reference

  -
    [Kepler Wiki page](Kepler "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Juno Wiki page](Juno "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Indigo
    retrospective](Indigo_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")