## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, April 2, 2014, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2014&amp;month=04&amp;day=02&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Steffen Pingel</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y Delegate: Konstantin</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Markus Tiede</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Rajeev Dayal</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Reminder: [deadlines and
    dates](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg10265.html)
    for Luna CQs, Reviews, etc.

<!-- end list -->

  - Reminder: Make sure you and your projects are aware of [these
    proposals for "preferences and configuration" and "error
    reporting"](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg10405.html).

## Previous meeting minutes

  -

      -
        Let's discuss EclipseCon meeting and hear "trip reports" at end
        of meeting, if time allows.

    [EclipseCon face-to-face](March_16_2014.md)

    [Previous "first Wednesday"
    meeting](March_05_2014.md)

## Kepler SR2

  - Any issues?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    There is one known, mysterious p2-update issue (discovered after
    'release'):
      -
        Sounds like no progress?

*This was discussed at EclipseCon, by p2 team, and while good solution
is still unknown, the reasons for it are understood, and (for some
reason) doesn't seem to be reported that often as a problem, so I'll
remove from future agenda items.*

## Kepler Plus

  - Discuss/Decide Plan (if any) for "post Kepler patches" for Java 8
    support.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    I'm assuming everyone has been reading the thread on cross-project
    list titled: Kepler SR3 for Java 8?
      -
        For overall view, see
        <https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists//cross-project-issues-dev/threads.html>
        I think this is the initial, quiet posting:
        <https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists//cross-project-issues-dev/msg10388.html>
        And for some reason, heats up from there.
    Thanks to Mike and Eclipse Foundation for the [steps they are
    taking](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg10439.html)
    to raise awareness.
    \[retrospective\] Overall, I feel I'm responsible for not putting on
    agenda months ago (but, I know we are all responsible for failure to
    plan) ... but it appears that Java 8 support caught some people by
    surprise -- and perhaps we should have thought to coordinate better?

<!-- end list -->

  - Brief reminder that some have said if our goal is to "wow casual
    users" that bugs such as  may not allow that. That is, those not
    used to "EEs" and "toolchains" may be frustrated by some of the
    behavior, instead of wowed, and those that do understand EEs and
    tool chains are likely not burdened (too much) by using patches.
  - How big is the problem? Who besides Platform (JDT/PDE) has "Java 8"
    support to patch into Kepler?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    See  - Who has "Java 8 Patch" for Kepler SR2?
      -
        Faceted Projects, from WTP
        m2e (has already declined to participate, I believe).
        ObjectTeam?
        AspectJ?
        Anyone else?

<!-- end list -->

  - What should "we" do (as being responsible for "overall Release
    Plans")?

:\* Alternatives I've heard mentioned:

::\* Do nothing, and projects can provide patch features from their own
repositories, if they'd like.

::\* Kepler SR3, update sim rel repository, respin packages (gather
community testing and feedback, and package maintainers testing).

::\* Some sort of new "R" release? that was apparently discussed at
Arch. meeting at EclispeCon?

::\* In addition to EF's "summary pages", have a common repository that
would contain all patches related to Java 8.

  -

      -
        Note: I've seen where Wayne has already created ["Market Place"
        items](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=431294#c4)
        for the two known cases.
          -
            Is this equivalent to this "common patch" repo? (I think it
            is, mostly)?
              - This would, presumably, hold patches for "new function"
                for Java 8, as well as anyone who had to fix something
                to enable running on Java 8 -- but not "fixes in
                general" (those should still come from project's own
                repositories).
              - Would be "long lived" in the sense we would not delete
                it when Luna came out, but (I'd propose) would not have
                any further maintenance done on those patches (i.e., no
                attempt to make Kepler equal Luna support for Java 8).
                More of a sneak peek. Care is needed here not to give
                the wrong impression this was "Complete Java 8 support
                backported" to Kepler.
              - This could be implemented as a snapshot: with "copies"
                of the patch repositories ... composting subdirectories,
                and remaining unchanged.
            <!-- end list -->
              -
                Or could be implemented floating: a composite repo
                pointing to the original patch repositories, so small
                tweaks or blocking defects fixed (eventually) and thus
                would be "in" the "Common Java 8 Patch Repository"
                automatically.
        <!-- end list -->
          - Konstantin [has proposed to "do all the
            work"](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg10451.html)
            to create new packages with patched features, if he had "a
            commitment to publish these packages at a reasonable
            location in eclipse.org main downloads area".
          - Are there "third party" providers that make these sort of
            "Kepler Plus" packages? Such as EclispeSource via Yoxos?
            (And, I'm not asking for any confidential information\!).

Be prepared for a roll-call vote\! Not only "yea or nay" but, also if
your projects (with PMC's blessing) had something for this repo, or if
the strategic member you represent has any view point to share with the
Planning Council. \[As always, the decision is not made by "majority
rules" (the decision is made by "status quo, if no consensus") ... but I
do want to be sure to hear, equally, from everyone, with specifics.\]

### Results of discussion

''Meeting went over by 30 minutes, so we could talk on this subject for
an hour. We did decide a general direction, though some items still
needed a bit more research: ''

  - *If Konstantin was willing to "do all the work", we saw no reason to
    object to making the "pre-patched" packages available.*
  - ''But, we did not want to give users the wrong impression that they
    were "on par" with a service release, since basically they will be
    untested (by community, and package maintainers) so wanted users to
    have to go to separate page, make an explicit choice, and know what
    they were getting, for example to make it clear these were "Kepler
    SR2 packages with Java 8 Support patches pre-applied". We would not
    want to call them "SR3" nor imply "Kepler with full Java 8 support".
    ''
  - ''Follow-up Actions: ''

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \* Konstantin to send note to epp-dev list asking if any
        packages did not want to have such a patched package made
        available. (package maintainers would not have to test or
        sign-off on them, so at worse, they might get some bug reports
        they'd have to triage ... which hopefully would be a good thing
        as an early warning for Luna issue. And, of course, they could
        test as much as they'd like, but there would be no official
        "sign-off").
        \* Konstantin to send note to "m2e" asking if any inclusion
        required/desired for "wtp-m2e" in WTP.
        \* David to follow through with Eclipse Foundation, on how and
        where to place on "downloads". \[Technically, EF "owns"
        downloads page, but they'd appreciate our input and
        suggestions.\]
          -
            \* The best suggestion I heard, came from Dani, where on the
            current "Java 8 support" page, to have a link to 1) Kepler
            SR2 packages with Java 8 support patches pre-applied and 2)
            a link to "Luna packages under development with Java 8
            support" (this would be more relevant once M7 comes out ...
            but, until then, might point to Eclipse's download page for
            I-builds? Or, just say "(coming for Luna M7, available May
            9th)".
            \* Would recommend a "related link" on normal download page,
            that went to "Java 8 support page".
              -
                \* Konstantin: It needs to be far more prominent that
                that (bigger font). The user should be able to glance on
                the page and see Java 8 reference quickly. That will not
                be the case with the small text of the related links. On
                the call, folks brought up two alternatives that would
                address my concerns (a) Java 8 tab next to developer
                builds tab or (b) Java 8 rectangle beneath Eclipse
                Standard banner.

<!-- end list -->

  - *Non-action items we agreed on:*

::\* No changes to Kepler Sim. Release repository.

::\* No "common patch repository" would be made available.

::\* If someone "not ready now", then, we would not go through this
again in a month or two. (This includes, for example, if "JDT" comes out
with an improved patch in weeks or months ahead, then users would still
have to go to their specific site to install that update).

  - *Open Questions*

::\* When should the "Java 8 Support page with patched packages" go
away? When Luna comes out in June? Or, leave until September and Luna
SR1? Seemed a slight leaning towards September ... but ... we did not
really discuss enough.

## Luna Planning

  - Question/awareness of "Mac packaging". See . My view it is too late
    to do for Luna -- anyone feel like it's so important we drop other
    things to do this? I assume could not be done in an "SR" (but,
    maybe?) ... which would mean "another year". Is there a reason to
    never do it? (i.e. doesn't fit someone's "use cases" or workflow?)
    Would that mean we need "two forms" of packaging available to
    satisfy everyone?

*There was clear agreement this was not a Luna item, but most agreed it
should be investigated for Mars. It might take reaction on some
projects, such as if they don't specify "platform URLs" correctly (but
use some sort of relative or absolute file paths) but no real blockers
are currently known. Need to investigate if any side effects such as
does using "dropins" break the signature ... or, does dropins need to be
somewhere outside of Eclipse.apps", and similar unknowns.*

## Progress on Action Items

  - Improved "aggregator examples/doc". (dw -- no progress).
  - \[Orbit plan (dw -- no formal progress)\]

## New Business

  - ?

## Next Meeting

  - May 7, 2014 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting

## Reference

  -
    2013 EclipseCon face-to-face follow-through action items. For
    original meeting notes, see
    [March_24_2013](Planning_Council/March_24_2013.md)
    and for discussion leading to action items, see
    [April_10_2013](Planning_Council/April_10_2013.md).
    For last status update, see
    [May_8_2013](Planning_Council/May_8_2013.md).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Luna Wiki page](Luna "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Kepler Wiki page](Kepler "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Kepler
    retrospective](Kepler_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")