## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, April 1, 2015, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2015&amp;month=04&amp;day=01&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

|                           |  |  |
| ------------------------- |  |  |
| width="100%" valign="top" |  |  |

|                          |                                |   |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------ | - |
| Chris Aniszczyk          | Technology (PMC)               |   |
| Dani Megert              | Eclipse (PMC)                  | Y |
| Steffen Pingel           | Mylyn (ALM) PMC                |   |
| Brian Payton             | Datatools (PMC)                |   |
| Doug Schaefer            | Tools (PMC)                    | Y |
| Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo ) | SOA (PMC)                      |   |
| Ed Merks                 | Modeling (PMC)                 |   |
| Ian Bull                 | Rt (PMC)                       | Y |
| Chuck Bridgham           | WTP (PMC)                      | Y |
| Wayne Beaton             | Eclipse Foundation (appointed) | Y |
| David Williams           | (appointed Chair)              | Y |

**PMC (and Strategic) Reps**

|

|                |                                  |   |
| -------------- | -------------------------------- | - |
| Cedric Brun    | OBEO (Strategic Developer)       |   |
| Neil Hauge     | Oracle (Strategic Developer)     | Y |
| Stephan Merker | SAP AG (Strategic Developer)     | Y |
| Markus Knauer  | Innoopract (Strategic Developer) |   |
| Rajeev Dayal   | Google (Strategic Developer)     |   |
| (PMC rep)      | Actuate (Strategic Developer)    | X |
| (PMC rep)      | IBM (Strategic Developer)        | X |

**Strategic Reps**

|- ||width="100%" valign="top" || | |}

|             |                              |   |
| ----------- | ---------------------------- | - |
| \[no name\] | CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer) | X |
| \[no name\] | Birt (PMC)                   | X |

**Inactive**

|}

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - ?

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like.

## Naming Mars +1

  - and  - Naming Mars+1 (2016 Eclipse Simultaneous Release)

      - Neon: 31 % is latest being vetted. Any status update?

## EclipseCon 2015

\[To those that attended: how was breakfast? Any "notes" relevant to
Planning Council?\]

  - ''Wayne had "eggs and vegetables" which he highly recommends. :)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Sounds like nothing concrete discussed, at breakfast or elsewhere,
    with direct actions needed. But, still some discussion of "what can
    go in an SR", and "do we need 6 month releases instead of yearly"
    were the types of topics discussed.

## Mars Planning

  - Any issues?
  - Improving user experience in finding right function to install. For
    latest ideas, see

<!-- end list -->

  -

    \- Create a Marketplace for the simultaneous release.

    *Overall, would be "driven" by Eclipse Foundation, but they would
    need help from top level projects, and the Planning Council.*

<!-- end list -->

  - Moved "Sim Release Aggregation" to "[HIPP
    Instance](https://hudson.eclipse.org/simrel/)" (post M6).
  - Move Git access to require Gerrit URL .
  - Any issues with  - Use Java 7 in the infrastructure signing service?
    (Is currently Java 6).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Primarily effects "repack" users (of which PDE batch builds is
    main one).

<!-- end list -->

  - Improved "aggregator examples/doc" (a long standing "to do" item).
    See [The best format and process for contributing to Sim.
    Release](Simrel/Contributing_to_Simrel_Aggregation_Build#The_best_format_and_process_for_contributing_to_Sim._Release "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Can I ask for one volunteer to "edit" the document (just that new
    section)? Proof read, makes sure it is understandable? Not too
    wordy? (Before I announce to the world.)
    *No volunteers. Will let community review*.
    \- When should we require and enforce "the first format"? Or, some
    variation of it? (Purpose is to be more "repeatable", and more
    useful to adopters.) (See )
    \- Does any one have, or can someone create a tool to "create the
    right format"?

## Progress on Action Items

  - Improve "aggregator examples/doc". (dw -- done\! With preliminary
    version, anyway).

## New Business

  - Just curious, how's the ["greatfix
    competition"](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/greatfix/)?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Going well, according to Wayne. One unanticipated thing was when
    one person contributes many small fixes. No one of them is a "great
    fix", but as a whole is a significant contribution. Handling
    informally now, but next time my include in the rules or
    guidelines.*

<!-- end list -->

  - *Spent a fair amount of time discussing late addition of Gradle (aka
    Eclipse Buildship). Some concern expressed about lateness, some
    alternatives discussed, but to some extent all premature since Wayne
    et. al. not ready to formally propose. One thing needed is some
    "community" of Gradle users (experts) who can test to "make sure it
    is ready".*

<!-- end list -->

  - *Some **potential** security issues mentioned (one with Batik, one
    with Xerces and Java 9) but no action required at this time.*

<!-- end list -->

  - *Good news is the "Java 9 team" has been testing Eclipse and several
    projects, and so far no huge problems found.*

## Next Meeting

  - May 6, 2015 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting.

## Reference

  -
    2013 EclipseCon face-to-face follow-through action items. For
    original meeting notes, see
    [March_24_2013](Planning_Council/March_24_2013.md)
    and for discussion leading to action items, see
    [April_10_2013](Planning_Council/April_10_2013.md).
    For last status update, see
    [May_8_2013](Planning_Council/May_8_2013.md).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Mars Wiki page](Mars "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")