## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, April 4, 2018, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2018&amp;month=04&amp;day=4&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>Topic: Planning Council Meeting Time: this is a recurring meeting Meet anytime</p>
<p>Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android: <a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320">https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320</a></p>
<p>Or iPhone one-tap :</p>
<p><code>   US: +16699006833,,928841320#  or +14086380968,,928841320#</code></p>
<p>Or Telephone:</p>
<p><code>   Dial(for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location)：</code><br />
<code>       US: +1 669 900 6833  or +1 408 638 0968  or +1 646 876 9923</code><br />
<code>       Canada: +1 647 558 0588</code><br />
<code>       France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188</code><br />
<code>       Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188</code><br />
<code>       United Kingdom: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088</code><br />
<code>       Switzerland: +41 (0) 31 528 0988</code><br />
<code>       Sweden: +46 (0) 8 4468 2488</code><br />
<code>       Denmark: +45 89 88 37 88</code><br />
<code>       Netherlands: +31 (0) 20 241 0288</code><br />
<code>   Meeting ID: 928 841 320</code><br />
<code>   International numbers available: </code><a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf"><code>https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf</code></a></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members

Planning Council Chair: Melanie Bats

### Eclipse Foundation

  - Wayne Beaton
  - Frederic Gurr
  - Mikael Barbero

### Strategic Members

  - CA Technologies
  - CEA LIST
  - Ericsson AB (Marc-Andre Laperle)
  - IBM (Thomas Watson)
  - itemis AG (Alexander Nyssen)
  - Obeo (Melanie Bats)
  - Oracle (Neil Hauge)
  - Red Hat, Inc. (Nick Boldt)
  - Robert Bosch GmbH
  - SAP SE (Stephan Merker)

### PMC Representatives

  - Business Intelligence and Reporting Tools (BIRT) PMC (Gary Xue)
  - Data Tools Platform PMC (Brian Payton)
  - Eclipse Cloud Development PMC (Martin Lippert)
  - Eclipse Project PMC (Dani Megert)
  - IoT
  - LocationTech Technology
  - Eclipse Modeling Project PMC (Ed Merks)
  - Mylyn (Application Lifecycle Tools) PMC (Sam Davis)
  - PolarSys
  - Eclipse Runtime Project (RT) PMC
  - Eclipse Science
  - Service Oriented Architecture PMC (Adrian Mos)
  - Technology PMC (Chris Aniszczyk)
  - Tools Project PMC (Aleksandar Kurtakov)
  - Eclipse Web Tools Platform Project (WTP) PMC (Carl Anderson)

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

## Agenda

  - Photon & Oxygen status
  - Post Photon SimRel status

## Attendance

Ed Merks (Eclipse Modeling Project), Frederic Gurr (Eclipse Foundation),
Martin Lippert (Eclipse Cloud Development), Dani Megert (Eclipse
Project), Mélanie Bats (Obeo), Thomas Watson (IBM)

Regrets : Mickael Barbero (Eclipse Foundation)

## Notes

### Photon & Oxygen status

Everything is okay : Oxygen.3 out on time

RC2 Oxygen.3a EPP ready last week.

Oxygen.3a GA 11/04/18

### Post Photon SimRel status

After the last call, it was asked to Ed to bring at the board level our
discussion about naming & planning council role. See the previous
minutes & the bugzilla for details. The conclusion of this topic for the
board is that the planning council is for all the Eclipse projects and
the Simultaneaous Release could include all Eclipse projects. The board
does not care about the naming. The planning council concludes that the
naming must be inclusive enough. It was decided to use the following
pattern for the name : Eclipse MM-YYYY.

The urls should be : SimultaneousReleases/year/month.

Dani explains that the platforms will just drop the bits for M1 & M3 in
order that people can build EPP & do tests. In order to be aligned with
the release train the first platfrm milestone will be named M2.

Then it was discussed that we should care about moving the release dates
to be able to keep up to date with the java releases in order to reduce
the effort of making a specific Java support release as we did this
year.

Finally, Ed pointed the fact that we should recommend to projects to
have a latest repo in order to easily get the latest nightly build.

### Planning council call

We had few participants again during this call, remind that when you are
not available for the call you must send a representative. Some of the
participants suggested to update the call time, Mélanie will send a mail
to vote for a new time for this recurring call. Mélanie will contact
also recurring missing members to remind them to participate or to
propose a new representative.