## Logistics

|                |                                                                                                                                                         |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council Conference Call**                                                                                                                    |
| Date & Time:   | Wednesday, April 06, 2011, at [1200 Eastern](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2011&month=04&day=06&hour=12&min=0&sec=0&p1=179) |
| Dial-in:       | For the call-in numbers, see the "Project Review" number on [Foundation Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.    |

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oliver Cole</p></td>
<td><p>Tptp (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Mik Kersten</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Adrian Mos</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Thomas Watson</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC) (appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Stefan Daume</p></td>
<td><p>Cloudsmith Inc.(Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Kaloyan Raev</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Pascal Rapicault</p></td>
<td><p>Sonatype (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Christian Kurzke</p></td>
<td><p>Motorola (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Achim Loerke</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Appointed</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>Nokia (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>brox IT-Solutions GmbH (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
we have not heard from in a year or so, and have been unable to convince
to participate. Those members can become active again at any time.
Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Welcome "new" member Doug Schaefer ... new representative of Tools
    PMC.

## Indigo Status

  - On track for M7?

## Name Indigo +1

  - Name that release; Indigo+1. And [the winner
    is](http://www.eclipse.org/indigo/planning/poll2012name.php) ...
    *Juno. Pending EMO Review.*

<!-- end list -->

  -
    And, as of Tuesday, April 5, it is still "pending review".

## Eclipse 4.2 vs. 3.8 for Juno

We need to come up with a "proposed plan" for Eclipse Projects and
members to evaluate. With their feedback, our proposed plan can become
our initial plan, and it, in turn, become our final plan.

During this meeting, I'd like to get feedback on this proposal, to see
if it is ready to "publish" for further feedback from the community. I
realize that many of you will need more detailed meetings with the
projects you represent and/or member companies to see if this plan is
reasonable. It will help those discussions if there is a concrete
proposal.

(See also [notes from previous
meeting](March_20_2011#Eclipse_4.2_vs._3.8.md).)

### Proposal

For Juno, Eclipse 4.2 will be the primary workbench, but all
(participating) projects will support and maintain a 3.8 based
deliverable.

'Primary workbench' means Eclipse 4.2 will be the primary workbench that
(participating) projects build against, and test, and will be provided
in the common repository, and EPP packages. In all cases, "4.2" means
"4.2 plus compatibility layer". That is, no one is expected to split
streams, use 4.2 workbench "native" or exploit anything specific to 4.2.
Of course, projects can if they want to (within the
[*Assumptions*](April_06_2011#Assumptions.md),
below) but there is no requirement to exploit 4.2 directly and probably
better if low level projects do not.

'Support and maintain a 3.8 based deliverables' means that
(participating) projects, at a minimum, agree to continue to provide a
deliverable that can be used with 3.8 workbench. In most cases, we hope,
this is the exact same deliverable used for the 4.2 based deliverable.
This would be true for projects that do not use 4.2 specific API and
simply rely on the compatibility layer. But for projects that want to
exploit something new in 4.2 workbench ... that is split streams and
have one specific to the 4.2 workbench prereq ... then they would still
be expected to provide something adopters or upstream projects could use
for 3.8-based installs. When there are two separate deliverables, the
3.8-based maintenance version might simply be Indigo SR2, at a minimum.
But, even then, there might be cases where versions ranges have to be
adjusted, or bugs fixed due to changes in 3.8 (since Indigo SR2 will be
built and tested with Eclipse 3.7.2). Those are the minimum assumed
deliverables. Naturally, projects may do more if they have desire or
reason to, but the goal is to allow adopters an extended "transition"
period to 4.x, if needed, where things will still work, in some form,
using 3.8 based prereqs. For projects that do have "two deliverables",
the 3.8 based one would be available on their own download sites and
their own project's software site repositories, not the common
repository.

### Assumptions

While we want to allow projects to split streams, if they need to do so
to exploit some new feature in Eclipse 4.x, we assume no "low level"
projects introduce split streams that would require all dependent
projects above them to also split streams. This could easily lead to
"double work" for many people, which is not practical.

### Plan roll-out and point of no return

We need to follow a process of evaluating this proposal, making sure
there are no "blockers" that prevent it becoming our final plan.

The first step will be to "publish" this plan for feedback. If, or once,
we agree on wording, I'll send note to cross-project list and remind
people to talk to their Planning Council representative if they have
comments or suggestions on the plan. We'll incorporate feedback
received, from projects, or adopters, in our May meeting and then again
in our June meeting. At that point, we'll consider our "proposed plan"
to be our "initial plan".

To move from "initial plan" to "final plan", we will simply follow our
plan and re-evaluate each milestone of Juno, that is for M1, M2, M3, and
M4. Naturally, we expect confidence to grow incrementally each
milestone, but M4 (in mid-December) will be assumed to be the point of
no return. If no issues are found that prohibit this "4.2 is primary"
plan, then it will be considered final after M4, mid-December, 2011
(which is the normal time for the "final plans" for our yearly June
releases). This cycle differs a little from previous cycles, since it
assumes projects and adopters do plenty of early testing with those
early milestones (and/or early 3.8 based installs) to make sure it is a
valid plan fulfilling their needs. Typically, many projects will be busy
with Indigo maintenance during this same period of time, so it does take
some commitment to also do the early Juno work if there are any concerns
about implementing this plan.

### *Discussion during meeting*

*It was acknowledge that we don't necessarily know how to tell project
the best way to accomplish the goals of "joint support" ... for example,
some might want to build against 3.8 to make sure they do not
accidentally pull in 4.2 APIs, for example. It (probably) depends on
where each project wants to put the focus, but it is mostly up to the
project ... that is, we do not want to dictate how to do things, just
what the goals are ... but, if we come up with better suggestions, or
concrete how-to advise, we should mentor the projects if it would make
things easier.*

*It was mentioned that projects **can** split streams, without requiring
dependent projects to split streams (that is, their API would stay the
same). This might increase testing use-cases but would not "double" the
work. I'll reword "assumptions".*

''It was mentioned the proposal seems to say "4.2 is primary" but "we
discourage taking advantage 4.2's new capabilities". Especially in light
of "split streams do not necessarily propagate", I'll reword. ''

*Ed didn't know if "EMF Edit UI" needed to be split stream, or not ...
will have to investigate*.

*Mic reports that Mylyn will have to split stream for some of their
bundles, since they use UI internals, but this would not effect their
APIs, so would not mean adopters, that use Mylyn APIs, would have to
split streams.*

*Given that 4.2 is "primary" and used in repository and EPP packages,
what is the nature of the "support 3.8" requirement? It would not make
sense to say "ok, you can not be in 4.2 based repository, since you do
not support 3.8". Hence, 3.8 support is a "should do" ... a strongly
suggested should-do. With strong emphasis on "tell us explicitly if you
can not". While adopters could always (probably) simply use Helios SR2
based bundles in their adopting project or products ... but,, the
expectation would be that any bugs open preventing that kind of use
would be accepted as valid. (For examples, if someone has an overly
narrow version pre-req version range).*

''Put another way, since 3.8 not used in repo, or EPP packages, it would
be hard to know if someone was not maintaining 3.8 compatibility ...
would only show up from adopters or users that were "building their own"
3.8 based installs. That might be a reason or advantage of setting up
some "test builds" to produce a 3.8 based repository ... even if not
"delivered" or formally used, it would spot incompatibility issues
early, at least. This would also be a value-add service to those
adopters that needed 3.8 based builds, since then there would exist a
"specification" of what goes into a 3.8 based build. Hopefully could be
done with some sort of "incremental" build files, so only differences
would have to be listed. ''

*One request for May or June PC meetings is to list known cases, of who
plans to split stream, or knows they'd have to. Many projects should
already be known, since preliminary work with 4.1 has been going on.*

*There as a general consensus on the importance of the objectives, that
is, the importance of supporting both streams, but at the same time a
general feeling that "it sure seems complicated" and is unknown what
issues might arise.*

## Juno Dates

These are our proposed dates for Juno deliverables. They follow same
"pattern" as previous years. Any issues? Discussion? If not, the
milestone dates will be forthcoming, also following pattern from
previous years.

  -
    Release: June 27, 2012 (fourth Wednesday)
    SR1: September 28, 2012 (fourth Friday)
    SR2: February 22, 2013 (fourth Friday)

*These dates were agreed to. It was pointed out that this is what the
community would expect, and since one of the oft mentioned strong points
of Eclipse is its predictability, we would want a really important
reason to deviate*

## Next Meeting

  - May 4, 2011 (our regular "first Wednesday" meeting, at Noon
    Eastern).

## Reference

  -
    [Indigo
    Requirements](http://www.eclipse.org/indigo/planning/EclipseSimultaneousRelease.php)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Indigo Wiki page](Indigo "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Helios
    retrospective](Helios_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Indigo Simultaneous
    Release](Indigo/Simultaneous_Release_Plan "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")