## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, August 07, 2013, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2013&amp;month=08&amp;day=07&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992 (new number), 1-877-369-7806 (old number)</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Steffen Pingel</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (or Bob Brodt?)</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Markus Tiede</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Rajeev Dayal</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - New Member: Dani Megert is now the Eclipse PMC representative to the
    Planning Council. Thanks to John for years of service. Thanks Dani
    for volunteering to take his place.

## Luna Planning

  - Is there confusion/contradictions about "unreleased components in
    Sim. Rel. repo"? See .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    For reference, see [current
    policy](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_FAQ#Can_a_Simultaneous_Release_project_include_bundles_or_features_from_a_project_not_in_the_Simultaneous_Release.3F "wikilink").
      -
        *It was thought this one deviation was a "fluke" and no
        systematic action needed; that for the most part, everyone
        understands*
          -
            ''a) can't release code under another project's namespace
            (can "include" it, if previously released)
            *b) if unreleased code is desired to use (it is, after all,
            EPL) you must "refactor" it into your own namespace,
            following the usual rules of attribution, maintaining
            copyright info, etc.*

<!-- end list -->

  - Are we "too lax" in versioning requirements? Especially for
    "maintenance"? See [cross-project list
    posting](http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg09221.html).
    \[To be honest, I do not recall what specific situation this is
    about?\]

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Ed explained the situation to us (involved versioning issues
        between XText and UML2) and it too sounded like a rare case that
        did not need to be "policed". But does highlight the importance
        of correct semantic versioning and not "adding features" with a
        mere "service increment".*

<!-- end list -->

  - I have started scheduling Luna milestones. I think first 4 or 5 will
    be similar to previous years.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \* Appears that timing of EclipseCon in 2014 may effect how M6 is
    scheduled. It comes "the last week" of what would normally be M6,
    instead of M6 finishing first.
    \* See
    [Luna/Simultaneous_Release_Plan](Luna/Simultaneous_Release_Plan "wikilink").
      -
        *Most favored completing M6 before EclipseCon, even though that
        is the "API Freeze milestone". DW to workout that schedule in
        time for reps to review with their projects before September
        meeting (and alternatives, if any seem to exist).*

<!-- end list -->

  - Can/should Planning Council say projects "should" contribute source
    to common repo? Or continue to "leave it up to projects" to decide?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        See thread around
        <http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg09506.html>
        Possibly
        \[Remember, we should make this decision based on principle, not
        the one request for an "Ultimate Package" (), since a) we should
        always work on principles\!, and b) this package may or may not
        come to fruition.\]
          -
            *It was generally agreed we should continue status quo of
            "leaving it up to project" ... let their adopters and
            community drive any changes needed/desired. Primarily,
            simply not to "add process or rules" to what many think is
            already too many rules and processes and additionally, it
            was commented, it is hard to "draw the line" ... what about
            "types of documentation", or "examples" ... i.e. there is no
            one answer that fits all projects.*

<!-- end list -->

  - Discuss more frequent "(un?) coordinated releases" or updates to
    common repo or updates to EPP packages. (Doug, Ian).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    See Ian's summary at
    <http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02168.html>.
    For some fun reading, I looked up the original bug on how we got to
    the names of "SR1/SR2" ..
    For reference, see [current
    policy](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_FAQ#Can_a_new_project_or_feature_join_a_Simultaneous_Service_Release_.28SR1_or_SR2.29.3F "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *This item had a long discussion, covering many area, and for
        the most part, the status quo will be maintained for now.*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *A couple of things seemed to be agreed upon:*
          -
            *1) This is not something to change "this year" ...
            something longer term ... but, we need to continue the
            discussion and sort out the issues and solve them in some
            manner -- that is, there was no disagreement that the
            current schedule/rhythm does not satisfy all adopters and
            projects and we need to see if we can improve on that.*
            ''2) Other groups/projects are leaning towards "continuous
            delivery", why not us? (Or, do we already? :)"
            *3) The _main_ issue (in terms of "deliverables") -- I
            came to understand -- are the "EPP packages". That is, there
            is nothing preventing projects from releasing any time they
            would like to ... but the desire is that they'd like EPP
            packages updated at the same time. Otherwise, only
            "in-the-know" product adopters and a few savvy users know
            how to go to a project-specific repo to get updates (or,
            "new installs"). And ... some on planning council see that
            as a bad thing (ha ha ... mostly my humor :) ... but ...
            there are two sides to that story).*
            *4) There appeared to be agreement that something like
            "monthly releases" was not feasible ... too many places for
            it to "go wrong" or cause lots of additional work for
            projects (or, suffer from reduced quality). \[This was not
            literally discussed at meeting, but to add an editorial
            remark ... It seems hard enough to come out with 6 week
            milestones. It is unclear if anyone actually needed
            something as frequent as monthly or 6 week releases ... or
            if it was more a "marketing" thing? If so, could there be
            more/better/easier ways to "hype" milestones to get
            equivalent interest? If the desire really is so
            projects/adopters could release "whenever they were ready",
            then I'll just point out there is a lot of hidden
            assumptions being made in that case that in reality would
            cause the same headaches the "release train" is meant to
            solve -- primarily, it might appear to work fine the first
            time through, if everyone goes in order, but then suddenly a
            recent release, say of a commercial product, can not update
            a few months later to get the latest of some pre-req, due to
            some new feature/non-API use/deprecated API removal, subtle
            change in behavior, etc, and then they end up having to wait
            4 to 12 months anyway to get the fixes needed so they can
            "get on" that, now old, version of the pre-req ... and
            perhaps by then that pre-req no longer works with some other
            pre-req that has since released. So, point is, anyone who
            really desires this needs to think through the hidden (long
            term) assumptions and "solve" them.\] But, in general, "a
            mass repository" that may or may not work together did not
            seem to get much excitement from Planning Council, if I was
            hearing correctly.*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        ''A couple of items seemed to have very different points of
        view: ''
          -
            *1) Is it a good thing to encourage "frequent feature/API
            updates" or a bad thing? Examples were given on both sides.
            On the one hand, it can be "hard on" adopters to react, if
            there are large changes requiring adopters to do a lot of
            re-testing/translating/marketing, etc. But, everyone sees
            the advantages of it, especially for a "young" project like
            EGit where they needed lots of quick improvements to be
            complete, and useful.*
            *2) An interesting, contrasting, case was made about "core
            components" vs. "leaf components". To some, it seems clear
            that something like the core platform should only apply
            maintenance for SR1 and SR2 (to ensure only steady
            improvements in quality) but on the other hand, there are
            times that changes in the core platform is exactly what
            other projects want, such as CDT, ... such as having a new
            set of APIs added that allows them to come out with a better
            (from their point of view) off-cycle release even though
            "new API" can have unpredictable effects on other adopters.
            Hard problem to solve. \[Just thinking aloud, perhaps some
            special versioning conventions and tight p2 constraints
            could allow relatively safe "forks" of something like core
            platform APIs, without impacting adopters that were not
            interested? In essence, CDT would release their own forked
            version of the platform ... just thinking out loud ... not a
            serious proposal.\]*
            *3) Not to mention, sometimes even the core Platform may
            want to add a new feature "off-cycle", such as if a new
            version of Java comes out "mid-year", perhaps they'd want to
            add "preliminary support" for it in SR2? Perhaps those types
            of cases provides some hint of how to codify the practice of
            adding features in a "service release" ... when ever
            possible, they should be done as "optional", additional
            features that adopters can take or leave. Not sure how to do
            that with core API changes, though ... short lived fragments
            that adopters can take or leave?*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        So, lots to (continue to) discuss. Perhaps fundamentally, what
        does "continuous delivery" mean for something consisting of
        60-70 projects?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Dani did state that the Eclipse PMC discussed explicitly, and
        they want to keep the status quo. Even the names "Service
        Release". That while new features can be allowed in SR1 and SR2
        (as per our existing policy) that it is not something to
        "encourage", in their view, ... they should be the exception
        rather than the rule ... and the focus on SRs should be on
        improving quality, not adding new features. (hard to do both,
        with fixed resources ... or, more accurately, without vastly
        increased resources :). New features should be "exposed" to
        public in a number of milestones, before released. \[To
        editorialize again, perhaps we need to do a better job of
        encouraging use of milestones? I think some believe that a
        "release" is the only thing consumers/users will use enough to
        provide adequate feedback on a new feature.\]*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Doug did state explicitly that his "focus on IDE" efforts (and
        probable working group) were a whole separate issue and not in
        the Planning Council realm. (whew)*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        ''\[post-call\] Another comment I heard, on arch. council call,
        was that some adopters have been surprised to hear that "we"
        allow new features in SR releases at all -- while I think "we"
        want that to continue to be allowed, we should probably do a
        better job of documenting them, perhaps as a quasi-"exception
        process" so that it is more obvious to the community of "sim.
        rel. consumers" when it does happen ... and document better some
        of the basic information: what they change or add, if they are
        optional, etc.

<!-- end list -->

  - Doug also wants to discuss him taking over the "releng role" and do
    aggregation builds using Maven/Tycho.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        The focus is still on projects providing OSGi bundles in p2
        repos, right? No matter what technology they used to get there?
        What type of "project input" is required?
        What type of "testing" is done that all is well formed and can
        be installed together and is repeatable?
        In particular, how are "IDE" vs "runtime only" components
        treated separately?
        What are concrete advantages?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Doug said he would try to work on some prototypes. But (if I
        heard him over the spotting phone connection correctly) this
        wouldn't be anything to prevent planning to use the b3
        aggregator approach as we have been and continue with that until
        we know something more concrete, and then would be the time to
        re-discuss). The approach (again, if I heard right) basically
        makes use of a series of Jenkins (or Hudson) jobs, one
        successful job triggering the next, and progressively "building
        up" the repository. (I think is how he briefly described it).
        \[Doug, please correct if I mis-heard any of this ... we didn't
        spend much time on it.\]*

## Progress on Action Items

  - Editing of "Requirements Document"? (Dani and Neil)
  - GSoC project for "Development Channel"? (Wayne)
  - Improved "aggregator examples/doc". (dw -- no progress).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    But, about to send out "aggregator builds and streams ready" message
    ... depending on outcome of other items.

<!-- end list -->

  - \[Orbit plan "by end of August". (dw -- no progress -- will likely
    be late, still "in September")\]

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *There were no "in-meeting" updates to any of these items, except
    Dani said they should start the editing during M2.*

## Kepler Retrospective

  - Propose to start in August (if any extra time), finish in September.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    ''No time for a retrospective, per se, we'll try again in September
    ... please discuss with your projects or members you represent to
    see if there is anything we should document about "what worked" and
    "what didn't work". ''

## Next Meeting

  - September 4, 2013 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting

## Reference

  -
    EclipseCon face-to-face follow-through action items. For original
    meeting notes, see
    [March_24_2013](Planning_Council/March_24_2013.md)
    and for discussion leading to action items, see
    [April_10_2013](Planning_Council/April_10_2013.md).
    For last status update, see
    [May_8_2013](Planning_Council/May_8_2013.md).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Luna Wiki page](Luna "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Kepler Wiki page](Kepler "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Juno Wiki page](Juno "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Indigo
    retrospective](Indigo_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")