## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, August 5, 2015, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2015&amp;month=08&amp;day=05&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>John Arthorne (occasional)</p></td>
<td><p>Cloud (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Steffen Pingel (Sam Davis)</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>D (?Chan?)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Nick Boldt</p></td>
<td><p>Redhat (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Remi Schnekenburger</p></td>
<td><p>CEA List (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Rajeev Dayal</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - ?

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before meeting, but if questions or
    issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time to bring
    them up.

## Mars Planning

  - Any issues?

<!-- end list -->

  - What to call September and February releases?

:\* Propose to change name to "Mars.1" and "Mars.2" to avoid the
"service release" terminology, as one way to better reflect the rules
that have been in place for years (See [Policy
FAQ](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Policy_FAQ "wikilink")), and perhaps
name change alone would help correct the mis-perception that "new things
can be added only once per year". For some recent history discussion, on
how we ended up proposing a "point number", see [mailing list
thread](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02487.html)
on the topic.

  -
    \- Largest impact would be to change "MarsSRn" type phrases to
    simply "Mars.n" in the few places it is used.
    \- When generic words are needed, instead of numbers, the June
    Simultaneous Release can be called "the initial yearly Simultaneous
    Release" and subsequent ones, when generic wording is needed can be
    called "update (number)" or "point number" or "dot number". For
    example, "Our project typically does XYZ in the first update, not
    the initial release".
    \- This terminology applies primarily to the "Simultaneous Release".
    Individual projects should still refer to their releases as
    accurately as possible (service release, or minor release, if not
    specific number).
    \* The "Policy" (currently in Policy FAQ) will be "moved up" to the
    actual "plan" document. (Just as well move both items into the Plan,
    even if as footnotes.)
      -
        \> In general, "the policy" will emphasize that new projects can
        join in subsequent, as well as initial releases and projects can
        contribute "minor releases" as well as "service releases" ... it
        is up to the project. But, a) must be "backwards compatible"
        with that train (for example, a minor release that changes
        "internal methods" into API, should leave the "internal methods"
        in place, but deprecated) and b) almost never would be a "major
        release" -- the project would have to be a pure leaf component
        in Simultaneous Release, and have good reason to believe would
        not effect any adopters (hard to do, in practice), and would
        require "exception process" in Planning Council (partially as
        sanity check, but primarily to ensure well communicated).
    \- We need to (also) add milestones for update releases. I propose
    we have two milestones, M1 \[not sure when, yet\], and M2 become
    what we currently call the "warm-up RC". So, we would end up the 2
    milestones, and 3 RC's. The milestones are needed primarily for
    those new projects joining, or those adding large new features. But,
    as with mainline development, everyone should contribute "their
    latest", even if just working on service.
      -
        \> New Projects or features would have to be in the aggregation
        build by M2 \[Or, should we be stricter, and say M1? -- at
        least, for Neon's subsequent releases?\]
        \> \[TODO: More of a Neon Item, but consider having more than 2
        streams being aggregated. Purpose would be to better enable
        projects to be working on Update+2 before everyone else is
        finished with Update+1 (for example).\]

<!-- end list -->

  - Summary of discussion

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- In the end, Simultaneous Release name for September and February
    releases agreed to was "Mars.1", "Mars.2". This is the main name
    that will occur in announcements, URLs, and "about box", and similar
    -- anything that refers to a specific release. Initial releases will
    still be named without numeral, such as "Neon".
    \- It was also agreed that when a generic term is needed, then an
    informal "update" or "update release" is suitable, such as "We'll
    fix that in an update release". We considered the proposal of having
    "Update" in the name, such as "Mars Update 1" but some thought that
    would make URLs, and some names unnecessarily long, and for some
    there might be an implication that "update" meant about the same
    thing as "service" so we thought best to be as generic as possible.
    The <Release name><dot><numeral> does indirectly imply a "minor
    release" (but, that's only if you know about OSGi semantic naming
    ... so, pretty generic for most users). The generic term "update"
    was thought better that "minor release" since a) "minor release"
    does not have any "industry wide" meaning; b) many projects may
    still do only "service releases" so did not want to imply every
    project "had to be" a minor release. Its believed too, that this
    matches what a fair number of projects and products in the industry
    do -- have a "main (or major) release" and "dot (or point) releases"
    and "service releases".
    \- Had a LONG discussion about "what an update release means" ...
    some thought it still implied "nothing new", but most agreed it
    obviously means "nothing breaking". Some (who missed meetings where
    this was previously discussed) questioned "why not allow breaking"
    changes -- completely new releases -- but some adopters in meeting
    spoke up on the need and importance to have "nothing breaking".
      -
        \- While we agreed with the new emphasis on "users needs" we
        reiterated our desire to balance that with not only adopters
        needs, but more so committers needs ... every "coordinated
        release" is extra work for committers, on a number of levels. If
        nothing else, even if a project did not change anything
        themselves, they might be effected by changes someone else made
        in Simultaneous Release repo. Even a +3 project can effect a +1
        project, given the nature of plugins. They would not directly
        break compiling code, but they can change the order that things
        are done, or effect some critical path section of performance,
        and other indirect effects.
        \- It was agreed, that even breaking API changes might sometimes
        be allowed in an update release, but that would be handled under
        current Exception Process. The types of use-cases where this
        might make sense is for a leaf project (effects nothing else in
        Sim. Release) and where the project is fairly sure there are no
        adopters yet (such as new, incubating project) or where
        communication with adopters is thought to be adequate and
        adopters have indicated their desire for the breaking change.
        TODO: document this sort of exception explicitly in "Update
        Release" description (to be in the Plan document).
        \- After meeting, I realized we never discussed things like
        "translations". Having something "new" in an update release,
        could break some adopters "product translations" (that is,
        English might "show up" in a translated product, if some "new
        feature" was picked up by customer) but ... that seems to be
        fairly low risk and low impact.
        \- Some discussion of how much this was like "wild west" --
        especially considering long term potential process changes where
        projects could update even more frequently. Only conclusion was
        that to avoid "wild west" chaos was one reason to still have a
        "coordinated release" and if users want to get latest release of
        "uncoordinated changes" from some particular project, then they
        should have to take explicit action, such as adding a new URL to
        their software site repository list. This does have some
        implications: projects should not automatically add reference
        repositories to software site lists that are generic or "high
        level" and which could automatically pick up new releases with
        breaking changes. (I think everyone knows that, already).
        \- There was some talk about how to make it so that EPP packages
        could be "updated" by individual projects, without getting too
        "wild west" about it. Left for future discussions.
        \- There was some talk about how to better test packages
        automatically, so for future, especially if "very frequent"
        updates, there would not be too much increased burden on
        project's committers to test EPP pages (say, if individual
        projects in EPP packages released changes every month, every few
        weeks?). Again, mostly left for future. Wayne did mentioned
        Eclipse Foundation might be able to help fund/staff some
        "automated testing" effort -- though, I am sure he was now aware
        of how large this effort could be. :)
        \- There was no talk of if or how "Oomph" played a role in "more
        frequent releases", if any. Also left to future discussions of
        having milestones in "Update Release" streams (not just RCs) or
        more than two "update streams". Also left to future (not
        discussed) was the idea of having having a single Sim. Release
        repository instead of composite) which will become more
        important, as we have more update releases.
        \- Another thing not discussed, was the inability to remove
        features, in an update release. (See ).
    \- There was a repeat of statement of our desire to have 3 Update
    Releases for Neon (not two). TODO: need to propose dates soon\!
    \- It was agreed the Plan was the best place to put primary
    description of "Update Release" (and deprecate that unfindable
    "Policy FAQ"), but for Neon, to also add a section in Requirements
    to better describe exactly what requirements are, for Update
    Releases, such as when new projects need to be in a build. TODO: I
    will update Mars Plan soon, give PC a short time to review for
    errors, and then announce on cross-project list.

## Neon Planning

  - See initial working draft of plan at
    [Neon/Simultaneous_Release_Plan](Neon/Simultaneous_Release_Plan "wikilink").
  - Continuing Discussion of if and how to change "yearly release"?
  - \- See ["design" wiki
    page](SimRel/ChangingProcessAndTiming "wikilink"), which acts as
    centralized place to document the main ideas and plans.
  - Was there (and was there any good discussion) at possible meetup
    during EclipseCon France - see
    [PlanningCouncilToulouse](PlanningCouncilToulouse "wikilink").

## New Business

  - ?

## Next Meeting

  - September 5, 2015 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting

## Reference

  -
    2013 EclipseCon face-to-face follow-through action items. For
    original meeting notes, see
    [March_24_2013](Planning_Council/March_24_2013.md)
    and for discussion leading to action items, see
    [April_10_2013](Planning_Council/April_10_2013.md).
    For last status update, see
    [May_8_2013](Planning_Council/May_8_2013.md).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Mars Wiki page](Mars "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")