## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, June 8, 2016, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2016&amp;month=06&amp;day=08&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Martin Lippert</p></td>
<td><p>Cloud (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Sam Davis</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>D (Colin Ritchie)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Marc Khouzam</p></td>
<td><p>Ericsson</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Alexander Nyssen</p></td>
<td><p>itemis AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Nick Boldt</p></td>
<td><p>Redhat (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Remi Schnekenburger</p></td>
<td><p>CEA List (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>EPP (appointed)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(has PMC rep; Dani Megert)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Gary Xue)</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(has/had PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Rajeev Dayal)</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R!</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - ?

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

## Neon maintenance

  - Dates (and RCs) for Neon.1 (etc.) approved via mailing list.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Calendar updated through "end of year" (still need to do 2017).

## Oxygen Planning

  - Date for milestones, RCs and release approved via mailing list.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Calendar updated through "end of year" (still need to do 2017).

<!-- end list -->

  - ACTION ITEM: from the [mailing
    list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02626.html):
    Improve "Plan" wording about "format" and "when it is due".

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- DONE: See [Wayne's
    response](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02627.html)
    \- Briefly discussed "what plan is expected" and Wayne said "not
    much" from EDT point of view. No one on council seemed to want more
    (at this meeting) for Simultaneous Release.

<!-- end list -->

  - There has been a lot of discussion about "giving up release name"
    and using "date" instead. See .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- **ACTION ITEM:** Wayne to discuss with Ian on how best to get
    more data from our community of users.
    \- DONE (mostly): Wayne said Ian thought we didn't have a specific
    enough "problem" to ask general users about.
    \- Further discussion in the meeting lead to the idea that one thing
    that is missing is what DO we call the "think" we are releasing.
    "Eclipse Neon" seems too vague and definitely sounds like a
    different thing than "Eclipse Mars" (even if you add "release". Some
    quick suggestions were "Eclipse IDE - Neon Version" or similar (with
    dates, probably).

<!-- end list -->

  - \- ACTION ITEM: Doug said he would try to re-ignite the discussion
    via blog or similar.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \*- Main point is that we owe the community some response on bug
    493490 about what our plan will be.

### old (ongoing) stuff

  - Release Policy vs. Release mechanics. This is being tracked in .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    In M6 we changed to have (nearly) all features to be "root features.
    Now what? That is, can we "stop" adding "reference repositories" via
    feature p2.inf files?

<!-- end list -->

  - "Rolling release" issue.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        I have sometimes heard it suggested we allow more of a
        "continuous release". Is this something we should discuss?
        Should we have some long term planning for it? Such as, what
        would it take to accomplish that?
        This could be planned with or without the "beta stream"
        mechanisms sometimes discussed.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    '' Did not discuss much during this meeting, other than to note
    similarity to above issue.''

<!-- end list -->

  - Should the ability to update from yearly release to yearly release
    be a 'requirement'?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        **Impossible now, for Neon. Right? (for EPP Packages) Do we
        still need "streamless-URL" now?** I am assuming "no".

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        ***ACTION ITEM** from 6/8 meeting. Doug volunteered to "take up"
        this item to better specify "what does it mean" and "what will
        it take" to update across major releases. \[Doug, it is up to
        you, but I suggest you form a small team of like 3 people, such
        as Ian and Dani or, others who know some of the technical
        issues, to help if they are able and willing.\] The goal being
        just a more specific statement of what it means, and what
        projects have to do differently for Oxygen. That is, we don't
        need to reach Nirvana in one release cycle.*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        What would this take? (Such as features are never "just removed"
        but are replaced or transitioned?)
        Preferences, views, etc. have to "migrate" (if their ID
        changes).
        What testing would projects have to do?
        May become "defacto requirement" once  is implemented.
          -
            For Neon we will not have a "streamless" URL, since "won't
            work" for upgrading to Neon for the EPP packages.

## New Business

  - ''Wayne could not make the meeting, but posted a [message to our
    mailing
    list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02606.html)
    about concern over some specific projects -- some of which may have
    to be "removed" from the train. But, in addition, expressed concern
    over "the process".

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- ''I agree and commented on a similar issue on [cross-project
    list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg13122.html)
    about two projects who "declared intent", but thought they could
    join the build at the last minute. ''
    \- *I wondered out loud if it was time for more of a Sim. Release
    process where projects had to "prove they were ready to be in the
    Sim. Release" instead of us just saying what they needed to do, and
    then assume they were doing it. We did not discuss at this meeting,
    but, for example, I mean like a checklist (web app) that has to be
    updated every milestone? Just an idea.*

<!-- end list -->

  - A question was raised if people have to "announce" they will be in
    "Neon.1" if they were in Neon. The answer was "no". \[Did not
    mention it at meeting, but they should announce if they are NOT
    going to be in Neon.1.\]

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- This led to a brief discussion if projects should "rebuild" if
    their prereqs change. For example, if a security bug is found in an
    Orbit bundle. A few thought "yes", but seemed the consensus was
    "there was no way we could force them to" (i.e. can not leave them
    out, or else their "previous release" would still be there with the
    bad bundle) and it was probably a fringe enough case we did not need
    to have a rule about it.

<!-- end list -->

  - A question was raised how we can avoid issues such as with Neon
    where Window Builder was excluded for Neon. They were ready at the
    very very last minute but had not done any builds or testing for all
    of Neon. Somehow, we should "detect" when projects are not active so
    we can approach them early to find out if the project is viable, if
    they are testing, etc.

## Next Meeting

  - September 7, 2016 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting

## Reference

  -
    Draft [Eclipse Project Branding
    Requirements](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/trademarks.php)
    (Wayne)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Neon Wiki page](Neon "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")