|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council Conference Call**                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Date & Time:   | Thursday [August 06, 2008](August_06,_2008 "wikilink") at [1500 UTC / 0800 SFO / 1100 NYC / 1600 London / 1700 Berlin](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2008&month=8&day=6&hour=15&min=0&sec=0) |
| Dial-in:       | For the call-in numbers, please see the [Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.                                                                                                    |

## Attendees

  - Richard Gronback
  - Bjorn Freeman-Benson
  - Martin Oberhuber (for Doug Gaff)
  - Ed Merks
  - Anthony Hunter (for John Duimovich)
  - John Graham
  - Oliver Cole
  - David Williams
  - Neil Hauge
  - Brian Fitzpatrick (came in late in the call, sorry)

## Topics

  - Planning Council rotating chair position
      - Is the current
        [list](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)
        of PC members accurate?
  - Call and meeting schedule:
      - Monthly until the train is rolling, then more frequently? -
        **start with monthly calls**
      - In person meeting to coincide with September Board meeting
        (Dallas, TX), [EclipseWorld](http://www.eclipseworld.net), or
        [Eclipse Summit
        Europe](http://www.eclipsecon.org/summiteurope2008/)? Other
        time? - **shoot for Sept in Dallas** (pun intended)
      - December 10-11, 2008 - plenary session with Board
  - 2009 release (a.k.a. 'Galileo'):
      - must do and should do list update (deadline?) - **to be
        discussed at next in-person meeting**
      - dates (see [Galileo Simultaneous
        Release](Galileo_Simultaneous_Release "wikilink")) - **initial
        list OK, but M1 dates will be removed and conflicts raised as we
        proceed**
      - do we want update site, packages, or both? - **still undecided,
        pending investigate of p2 capabilities**
      - do we want to improve packaging/testing? - **starts with
        providing a Galileo all-in-one download?**
      - naming strategy moving forward - **agreed the community can
        decide, Anthony proposed a contest to coincide with EclipseCon**
  - [Project
    Plan](http://wiki.eclipse.org/Development_Resources/Project_Plan)
    (format and delivery) - **look at details during next in-person
    meeting**
  - Board interaction - **not much interest, it seems - though, plenary
    sessions may be sufficient**
  - Interested in IP process improvement discussion? - **potential PC
    involvement, to be discussed at next in-person meeting**

## Additional Topics

\[Not necessarily in order ... before the meeting, the Program Chair can
blend with main list and order them depending on overall priorities.\]

  - Do we have an accurate, active [Planning Council member
    list](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php)?
  - What's the connection between simultaneous release, EPP packages,
    and Planning Council? That is, what is our (Planning Council)
    response to
    [bug 238960](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=238960)?
    Is it "none of our business"? and EPP can do what they want? If we
    (Planning Council) do play a role, then what is the connection of
    packages to the yearly simultaneous release? That is, should we
    "insist" on one opportunity per year to create packages? Or, should
    we have more than one semi-simultaneous release to accommodate "off
    cycle" projects?
  - Let's pick a new name for the 2009 simultaneous release. Just
    kidding\!\!\! But, we should discuss what the process is. Do we,
    Planning Council want to decide ourselves (for a 2010 release)? It
    appears "the community" really, really\! likes participating. Should
    we just always have a yearly "contest" like we did the first year?
  - When should we document the "must do" lists for Galileo Release? I'd
    assume we'd want to raise the bar a bit, so should be done done soon
    so Projects can plan/decide if they want to and be able to
    participate.

## Action Items

  - ~~Propose the next in-person meeting to align with Board meeting in
    Dallas, TX on Tuesday, Sept 16th.~~ (Rich)
  - ~~Propose a monthly PC call the first Wednesday of each month at
    11:00 Eastern US time.~~ (Rich)
  - Send Donald a list of missing/incorrect Planning Council members
    found [here](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php)
    (All)
  - Investigate the use of p2 to create a "virtual" simultaneous release
    update site, sans the jar copying (Rich)
  - ~~Remove M1 from the Galileo release date calendar.~~ (Rich)
  - Look into having a "name that train" contest to coincide with
    EclipseCon each year (artwork as well?) (Bjorn)
  - ~~Invite Janet to next in-person meeting (Dallas?) to discuss IP
    process improvements.~~ (Rich)