|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council Conference Call**                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Date & Time:   | Wednesday [Dec 03, 2008](Dec_03,_2008 "wikilink") at [1600 UTC / 0900 SFO / 1200 NYC / 1700 London / 1800 Berlin](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2008&month=12&day=3&hour=16&min=0&sec=0) |
| Dial-in:       | For the call-in numbers, please see the [Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.                                                                                                |

## Attendees

  - Richard Gronback
  - Anthony Hunter
  - David Williams
  - Doug Gaff
  - Brian Fitzpatrick
  - Tom Watson
  - Oliver Cole
  - Pat Huff
  - Bjorn Freeman-Benson
  - Ed Merks
  - Doug Schaefer
  - Philippe Mulet
  - Wenfeng Li

### Regrets

  - Karsten Schmidt
  - Markus Knauer (I'll try to be on the conference call, but I am not
    sure if I can make it...)

### MIA

  - Chris Aniszczyk (Technology PMC)
  - John Graham
  - Neil Hauge
  - Mika Hoikkala
  - Oisin Hurley
  - Christian Kurzke
  - Mike Milinkovich
  - James Saliba
  - Georg Schmidt

## Topics

  - Galileo requirements... last chance to confirm or contest before M4
      - Unanimous confirmation that what we have is fine
  - Bundles as jar requirement: applies to source jars as well? See
    [bug 252800](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=252800#c3)
      - Unanimous confirmation that source jars are also required, with
        the same clause of documented deviations
  - Capabilities, the next round of defining this requirement. See
    [bug 252807](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=252807#c1)
      - Agreed that minimal approach is all we require in Galileo, and
        that project wishing to avoid creation of a new feature/bundle
        can contribute to Galileo directly
  - TPTP questions on requirements (see below)
      - All issues resolved, with a suggestion to add the offer from
        TPTP to aid with performance testing be added to the
        corresponding requirement bug
  - Provider names in the About dialog. See
    [bug 198941](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=198941#c16)
      - Agreed to promote this should-do to a must-do and include that
        provider names be more descriptive, per the bug discussion. PMCs
        to determine the best approach for their projects.
  - Continue discussion of [SDK Composition](SDK_Composition "wikilink")
      - Nothing further to add at this point. Philippe to look at the
        page in detail to help address the platform issues identified.

### Reminders

  - December 10-11, 2008 - plenary session with Board

## Additional Topics

  - TBD

### TPTP Questions

There has been much discussion regarding the Must and Should do's for
Galileo. At today's TPTP PMC call, we went over each of the Must and
Shoulds with regard to TPTP and also with regard to the others on the
train.

We weighed the effort for each against the expected benefits for each.
Overall, we thought the list was fine. We have the following comments:

  - New and Noteworthy - the bugzilla

(https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=252805) says that these
are done on each milestone. The Requirements page
(http://wiki.eclipse.org/Galileo_Simultaneous_Release\#Requirements_For_Participation)
says RC (Release Candidate). TPTP agrees with this for the Release
Candidate but it seems a bit much to have it as a must do for each and
every milestone.

  - Capabilities - TPTP will provide a single point of capability 'TPTP'

in a plugin that will enable user to disable/enable TPTP UI
contributions (import/export, launch configurations, views, preferences,
and perspective). 254151 is already opened by Anne for such requirement.
Does this single point comply with the must do?

  - Also, we have a question regarding dependencies as TPTP has features

that depend on other projects (e.g., Profile on server has a dependency
on WTP). Do we leave the choice to the user or do we act smart and
enable all the optional dependencies for the user?

  - Performance - Please add that TPTP is appropriate for profiling and

performance work. As you know, we are putting resources into the
community profiler and this is exactly the kind of thing that we are
trying to encourage. We will do good support.

## Action Items

  - Send out updated requirement to all, particularly for new About
    dialog must-do (Rich)
  - Devise an example of using Bugzilla to document N\&N using
    attachments/comments (Rich)
  - Document Galileo build repository location and notify general public
    that M3 bits are available on
    <http://download.eclipse.org/releases/galileo/> (Rich)

**Carry over items**

  - Look into having a "name that train" contest to coincide with
    EclipseCon each year (artwork as well?) (Bjorn)