## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, December 2, 2015, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2015&amp;month=12&amp;day=02&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>John Arthorne (occasional)</p></td>
<td><p>Cloud (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Sam Davis</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Nick Boldt</p></td>
<td><p>Redhat (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Remi Schnekenburger</p></td>
<td><p>CEA List (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Rajeev Dayal</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Not official yet, but has been proposed to slip Java 9 about 6
    months, to March 2017. That will be near our Neon.3 release so may
    have to adjust?

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is review them before the meeting, but if questions
    or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time to bring
    them up.

## Mars Planning

  - Mars.2 issues?
  - Remember Mars.2 RCs begin Jan 15 to Jan 22.

## Neon Planning

  - See initial working draft of our plan at
    [Neon/Simultaneous_Release_Plan](Neon/Simultaneous_Release_Plan "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - \- Neon's Update Release Dates

<!-- end list -->

  -
    At our [previous
    meeting](September_02_2015.md) it was
    decided to have 3 update releases (instead of current 2), and have
    them approximately equally spaced:
      -
        June (3) September (3) December (3) March \[(3) June\]
        \* I propose we plan the availability of Update Releases to be
        the same as the end of specific Neon+1 milestones.
        \- That would be M2, M4, and M6. (See Neon's schedule, for a
        rough idea of when Neon+1 milestones would be.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- *There was a general agreement this seemed reasonable, but,
        some wanted more detail, such as how "test time" would line up,
        for the milestone vs. update releases. So that will be the next
        step, for me to map our some detail, and show both milestones
        and update releases on same schedule or calendar.*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- The "two milestone pattern" (one-week-window period)

|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |

  -

      -
        \- The "two milestone pattern" (two-week-window period)

|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |
|  |

::\* Questions on patterns:

  -

      -
        Do we still need the RC1 "warmup" to be two weeks "early"? I
        think nearly all projects are so good at this, we no longer need
        a "warmup" and could jump right into "real" RCs.
        Do we still need the "two-week-window pattern? Or, is one week
        always enough? Again, I think it speaks to the skill of the
        projects that we may no longer need it.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-*There was agreement on this proposed plan, as well as
        agreement that we no longer need a 2 week RC1 warm up, and that
        we no longer need a two week window for 3 milestones.*
        \-*We were reminded -- and reminded to remind our projects\! --
        that one implication of the change is that the last service
        release will be AFTER EclipseCon NA.*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- This has one obvious advantage: for projects that are
        essentially working on one stream only (such as fixes-only,
        especially for first Update Release), they can submit same
        content to the Update Release, and the Milestones stream.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- ''Nick suggested: Would this be a good time to look at
        changing the /staging/ and /maintenance/ URLs so they're
        \*release-specific\*?
          -
            Will track with

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- Also, looking at the schedule, the December "match up" seems
        a no brainer ... not much other time to do it?
        \- M6 matching the last Update Release is nice since gives
        "clear focus" for M7 and the end-game of Neon+1.
        \- And Neon.1 matching M2 completes the rhythm.
        \- From those "end dates" we would count backward, to establish
        the same RC pattern we have now.
          -
            \- I've not looked closely, but believe the first "warmup"
            RC, would be same or near the previous Neon+1 milestone.
            (one quiet week, plus 3 one week RCs, plus 1 two week RC
            equals 6 weeks) \[Is that good or bad? Do we still need that
            early warm up RC? (I'm inclined to say yes, if for nothing
            else, "new projects" joining the train, and for those adding
            minor feature updates -- we still want a relatively early
            warm-up for them, similar to an update release milestone).

:\* Can we say now we all agree with these dates? (I suggest "official
vote" for next meeting, but if disagreement or concerns speak up now\!)

:\* Has everyone had a chance to talk to their PMCs, Projects, or
Strategic Members they represent? (Please do, we need, and want,
complete buy-in from all stack holders -- that is, not so much what we
dictate, as it is what they want ... or, at least tolerate).

  - Off-cycle "hot fix" releases/patches. This is being tracked in .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- *We did not discuss this topic much, at this meeting.*

<!-- end list -->

  -
    One proposal: have all features in EPP packages be "root features"
    and establish a procedure of adding new code to the Sim. Release
    repository "at any time" -- for "hot fixes" only ... after
    review/approval by Planning Council?
    AND, change p2? to "not allow" addition of reference repositories
    during feature installs.
      -

          -
            (Would likely have to be a "product preference" since some
            adopters may depend on that feature, but EPP could "set" the
            preference).
            Easy for me to say "change p2" :) but ... who would do the
            work?

        This "reference repositories issue" was a discussed as a concern
        at Architecture Council

          -
            Apparently there have been cases of users getting "mixed"
            installs because reference repositories are sometimes very
            broad. \[I hope I've captured that issue correctly, I was
            not there, so please correct if I read it wrong.\]
    Does Oomph solve this problem at all? Does it have a possible
    solution?

<!-- end list -->

  - Rolling "release" issue

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- *We did not discuss this topic much, at this meeting.*

:\* Upon re-reading, that was another topic discussed at Arch. Council.

:\* Probably several ways to solve ... if it is a real issue? ... and,
if I understood what the "end goal" was better?

### Neon new requirements

  - If a bundle is already signed by "Eclipse" it must not be re-signed.

<!-- end list -->

  - Projects must provide b3aggrcon file change for every new
    contribution. Either change exact feature versions if pointing to a
    composite or change URL if pointing to a simple repository. (i.e. No
    more "set it and forget it" practice of pointing to a composite, and
    hoping the correct "latest version" gets picked).

<!-- end list -->

  - others?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-*No other requirements were named, and these two new ones were
        thought reasonable, and agreement "we were ready (and capable)
        of more rigor".*
        \-*DW to update plan and requirement document, notify PC and
        allow a few days for comments, and then notify cross-project
        list.*

## New Business

  - Any volunteers to drive the naming of "Neon + 1"? We normally start
    this process in December or January.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- *No volunteers, so far. But it was suggested I send Chris a
        note (which I have done).*

<!-- end list -->

  - TODO: It was mentioned at a previous meeting it would be nice if not
    important to "rekindle" the face-face meetings at EclipseCon NA ...
    or, some other form of more active Planning Council participation,
    such "meeting your Planning Council Rep Hour"? (or BOF?)

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- *Wayne took the action of creating [a doodle
        poll](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02542.html)
        and coming up with 'topics' for a face-to-face meeting. Such as
        "how can we be more "product like".*

## Next Meeting

  - January 6, 2016 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting

## Reference

  -
    [Neon Wiki page](Neon "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")