## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, Dec 07, 2016, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2016&amp;month=12&amp;day=07&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Martin Lippert</p></td>
<td><p>Cloud (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Sam Davis</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Adrian Mos</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>D (Bob Brodt)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Fred Gurr</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (releng)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Marc Khouzam</p></td>
<td><p>Ericsson</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Alexander Nyssen</p></td>
<td><p>itemis AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Nick Boldt</p></td>
<td><p>Red Hat (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Remi Schnekenburger</p></td>
<td><p>CEA List (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>EPP (appointed)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(has PMC rep; Dani Megert)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Gary Xue)</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(has/had PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Rajeev Dayal)</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - ?

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

## Neon maintenance

  - Remaining from previous action item: Need to establish new "Info
    Center procedure" for Neon.2. ()

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Fred reported he is working on a Hudson job to automate this,
        and should be done by end-of-week".*

<!-- end list -->

  - FYI from previous "New and Noteworthy" action item:

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Wayne added New and Noteworthy procedure to
    <https://wiki.eclipse.org/SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements/Appendix#New_and_Noteworthy>
    \- and I added short pointer to it in the "Final Daze" document
    <https://wiki.eclipse.org/Neon/Final_Daze#Provide_input_for_overall_New_and_Noteworthy>

## Oxygen Planning

### Java 9 Coordination \[Dani\]

  - Dani, anything to report?
      - We (Platform Project) create a report that runs jdeps during our
        build. We have to investigate how this can be pushed down to
        Tyhco.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \[dw\] FYI, there is a Maven plugin that can be configured. See
        [maven-jdeps-plugin](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-jdeps-plugin/).
        It does, apparently, offer only "pass/fail" (that is, no setting
        to list violations as "warnings") so it may not be useful to
        everyone.

<!-- end list -->

  -   - I expect to send out information for the projects on January.

### Stop using Release Name?

  - Reminder to open bugs where "release name" is used by itself: See .

### New levels of IP

  -
    \- Do we, as Planning Council, want to stipulate a participating
    project must be of "type B"? Or, do we not care? It may depend on
    "how labeled"? How do users or companies know? What do they expect?
    Comment in .
      -
        \- In a previous meeting are most recent conclusion was:

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- "Anyone can be in the Simultaneous Release repository
        regardless of IP method chosen". :::- But, this was conditional
        on users and adopters being able to easily know which method
        applies -- in case it does matter to them. Suggestions were made
        to provide meaningful names (other than "Type A and Type B") and
        to provide the information in something like the about.html
        file. We all agreed with Wayne that it should not be part of a
        package name or bundle id, etc. Just something more "self
        documenting" than the "release record" (Wayne's currently
        planning on providing that).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Wayne, any news on "names" or how "documented" for end-users and
    adopters?

*It appears the names "Type A" and "Type B" will stay. Wayne had some
ideas on how to describe them on any user facing pages, such as "License
Compatibility" for former and "License Compatibility, providence, and
code scans" for the latter. And, it appears the only way to tell will be
to look in the IP Log (and maybe Release Docs?). No one at the meeting
voiced any issue with that.*

### Potential new requirements

  - Should the ability to update from yearly release to yearly release
    be a 'requirement'?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    From last meeting:
    \- *After a brief discussion, it was decided this should not be a
    **requirement** though we should encourage projects to test that
    scenario and keep track of issues.*
    \- *Doug surprised us all saying current "root features" do not work
    as expected. That items can to be removed or added? Doug, please
    clarify in  what issues you are seeing.*

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \-- The issue was that they could not be removed. Appears to be no
    deep concern.

<!-- end list -->

  - I would like to suggest we "beef up" our current "update" policy:

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- It is currently captured as an "optional" requirement. See
    <https://wiki.eclipse.org/SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements/Appendix#Compatibility_with_Previous_Releases>
      - I propose moving it to "required", where the **required** part
        is to simply document if the project supports updating from
        previous yearly releases. And we should be explicit that
        "supports updating ..." means:
    <!-- end list -->
      -
        \- Testing it
        \- Accepting bugs against it
        \- Following best practices, such as migrating preferences that
        changed ids, etc. \[Can anyone provide more detail here?\]
    Naturally, a project may decide to document "No, not supported", but
    then at least we (and users) would know.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *This item was agreed to put in the "requirements" document. I
        will work on exact wording and "move up" the 'workspace
        compatibility' item currently in optional. ACTION-ITEM: Wayne
        will open a bug for him to update PMI for "release record" with
        a check box that would have 'unspecified', 'no' 'yes' for a
        response to "Is Update-able across yearly releases".
        ACTION-ITEM: dw to open cross-project bug "for issues defining
        what is means to be 'update-able'".*

<!-- end list -->

  - Similarly, I propose we **require** that projects document if they
    are "Java 9 ready".

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- This would mean \[more detail welcome\]:
      -
        \- They have tested **running** on Java 9.
        \- Will accept bugs that occur only when running on on Java 9.
        \- They have tested with "jdepends" for "VM internal use"
        methods. (And, ideally, removed such uses).
        \- Anything else?
        \- If a project provides Java "functionality" (such as
        generating code, having special natures, etc.) that they either
        have that functionality in Oxygen, or will have for the "Java 9
        update release" currently planned for July.
    Again, projects can simply say "no", but then at least we (and
    users) would know.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *This item was agreed NOT to put in requirement document. If
        nothing else it is "too early" since Java 9 is not out yet. But
        also, there were some concern how important it would be if Java
        9 is not truly "backward compatible" then many Eclipse projects
        may never run well on it. But, the PC thought we, as Eclipse's
        Leaders, should begin "socializing" the idea of getting ready
        for it, and what project can/should do, such as Wayne said he
        may blog about using "jdep" and dw said he may open a
        cross-project bug about "Java 9 readiness". One thing mentioned
        was that Eclipse would not run "out of the box" as it currently
        is, but "out of the box" only the "bare-bones" module would "be
        in the stack" (at least, as things currently stand).*

### Release Policy vs. Release mechanics

  - For details, see .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    In Neon M6 we changed to have (nearly) all features to be "root
    features.
    Now what? That is, can we "stop" adding "reference repositories" via
    feature p2.inf files?
    Can we make an official policy on "off scheduled fixes" (as we are
    considering for MPC)?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- We have not discussed this topic for a long time. I think it
        is important, but will remove from "ongoing issues" unless
        someone at December meeting asks that it remain.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *No comments about importance, so will remove. But will leaving
        a "closing" comment on the bug, to the effect that "It is hard
        to make a general rule about it, especially since it is rule
        that would only apply to projects as part of the Sim. Release.
        Most of our other rules apply as a "good practice" for any
        Eclipse project, even if not at the Eclipse Foundation. We agree
        projects should not install reference repositories when their
        features are installed but that was more a "project by project"
        decision and what they judge their users want. Users and
        adopters are welcome to open bugs against projects that abuse
        its use, if desired, but nothing the Planning Council could
        do."*

## New Business

  - ?

## Next Meeting

  - January 4, 2017 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting

## Reference

  -
    \- Draft [Eclipse Project Branding
    Requirements](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/trademarks.php)
    (Wayne)
    \- [Neon Wiki page](Neon "wikilink")
    \- [Oxygen Wiki page](Oxygen "wikilink")
    \- [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)
    \- [Simultaneous Release
    Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink") and [Simultaneous
    Release Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")