## Logistics

|                |                                                                                                                                                            |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council Conference Call**                                                                                                                       |
| Date & Time:   | Wednesday, December 01, 2010, at [1200 Eastern](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2010&month=12&day=10&hour=12&min=0&sec=0&p1=179) |
| Dial-in:       | For the call-in numbers, see the "Project Review" number on [Foundation Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.       |

## Attendees

<table style="width:30%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 30%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oliver Cole</p></td>
<td><p>Tptp (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Mik Kersten</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Anthony Hunter</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Adrian Mos</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Thomas Watson</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC) (appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>Strategic Reps</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Stefan Daume</p></td>
<td><p>Cloudsmith Inc.(Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Kaloyan Raev</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Pascal Rapicault</p></td>
<td><p>Sonatype (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Christian Kurzke</p></td>
<td><p>Motorola (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>Appointed</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p><br />
<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above attendance record.</small><br />
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small><br />
<small>N = No, did not</small><br />
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small><br />
<small>X = not expected</small></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Inactive

<table style="width:30%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 30%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p> ?</p></td>
<td><p>Nokia (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p> ?</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p> ?</p></td>
<td><p>brox IT-Solutions GmbH (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p><br />
<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic">Strategic Members</a> we have not heard from in a year or so, and have been unable to convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>



## Announcements

  - *Announced new members: Mik, Pascal, Adrian*

## Maintenance Schedule

### Helios SR2

2/25/2011 (Fourth Friday of February)

For detailed RC schedules, see [Service Release Schedule in master
plan](Helios_Simultaneous_Release#Service_Releases "wikilink")

## Indigo Status

  - nearing M4. Is everyone in? Any known exceptions?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Kaloyan mentioned OSGi Enterprise Tools project will likely be
        one exception. Not ready by M4. And while still incubating for
        Indigo, will (likely) be put forth, later, as an exception to
        the M4 deadline.*
        *After the meeting, Pascal mentioned to to me in email that m2e
        might be delayed due to waiting for some CQs. He should know
        more next week.*

## Indigo Plan and Schedule

  - [Indigo
    Requirements](http://www.eclipse.org/indigo/planning/EclipseSimultaneousRelease.php)

<!-- end list -->

  - Discuss "namespace" issues discussed in  and elsewhere.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Several issues came up: One, more concerned with EDP proposed
        changes, rather than sim. rel., is that some projects do not use
        the "org.eclipse" namespace through out ... ETF and AspectJ.
        That is, there are known exceptions. The issue for Sim. Rel has
        more to do with "overlapping" or "reusing" someone else's
        namespace, especially in a common repository.*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *While it was acknowledged that "it has happened once", the
        general feeling of the council was that it is so rare, that
        rules and procedures did not need to be documented. That is was
        indeed "common sense" that you can not use someone else's
        namespace, and we do not need to document such common knowledge
        or such rare exceptional cases.*

<!-- end list -->

  - Discuss issue (from last year) ... to what extent should Sim. Rel.
    materials (checklist) be part of official release docuware.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *It was felt we did not need the "persistence" of a PDF copy and
        that a link would be nice, but no hard requirement. So, I added
        this sentence:*

> "This may be in the form of providing a URL to the checklist, ideally
> as part of the normal docuware."

  -
    *following the original statement:*

> "In addition to the ordinarily required Release Review Archival
> Materials, all Projects participating in yearly Release agree to
> provide a checklist-with-detail form that describes their compliance
> (or not) with all of the criteria items described in this document."

  - Suggestions during (previous) meeting:

<!-- end list -->

  -
    ''The req. doc was deemed ready, acceptable, with one exception:

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        The requirement wording on 'jarred bundles' needs to be improved
        so no explicit exception required (it is required for any
        requirement in that section) and to also make it more generic
        and easier for a project to document why a bundle is not jarred.
        Or, maybe even detail when it should be documented, and what is
        an automatically acceptable?''

<!-- end list -->

  - Proposed new workings to replaces "jarred bundles" paragragh:

<b>Jarred Bundles</b>. Projects must use jarred plug-ins (with
unpack=false) unless there are technical reasons not to do so. Also,
nested jars should be avoided if possible since it creates problems for
projects that has dependencies to such plug-ins. The OSGi runtime is
fine with it but the PDE environment is not able to handle classpaths
that contain nested jars. Exceptions to these principles should be
documented by the project, so we can learn the reasons and extent of
unjarred bundles.

  -
    Discussed "once in always in".

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        ''No proposal to change, but given the discussion and
        misunderstandings, some wording should be improved, maybe 'once
        participating, always participating', or 'participation is
        continuous', or something. Plus, should improve the wording of
        'Exception process' to better emphasize its purposes: a) improve
        communication, b) improve PMCs shepherding their own projects
        (not the planning council, or planning council chair), and c) be
        sure decision point is not just one person (the planning council
        chair) but is instead a group effort. ''

<!-- end list -->

  - Proposed new wording to replace "once in always in" paragraph:

<b>Joining implies continuous participation. </b> After a release, there
are two follow on activities that must be planned for. First is that
releases maintenance stream. The second is the subsequent year's
release. In both cases, it is (as always) up to the project to decide
what to fix or what to enhance, but being part of the train implies you
will always be able to build, in maintenance and in the subsequent
release's milestone builds. Sometimes this means simply leaving
repositories intact, etc., but occasionally projects may need to fix
"prereqs" or similar. Put another way, being part of the Simultaneous
Release is not a "one time" activity, covering only the literal release
date and not even a "part time" activity covering only part of the
yearly development cycle. Instead it is a commitment to stay
"simultaneous" on an on-going basis.

  -

      -
        ''It was requested to beef up the "communication" aspect better,
        that if a project is going to drop out, or suspend activities
        for a long time, they should announce broadly since could effect
        dependent projects.

<!-- end list -->

  - Tracking "setup" required from Foundation in

<!-- end list -->

  - See initial [Indigo Wiki page](indigo "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Review: There is a subtle implication of specifying Java 6 as
    "minimum runtime" requirement. Currently, we require contributors to
    use Java 5 when using pack200, since if not, and if involves a jar
    that contains no Java (e.g. source or documentation) then it can not
    be unpacked with Java 5, Java 6 would be required. This has been a
    headache for people since for many it means tweaking build scripts
    so an "old" (1.5) VM is used for that one step. During aggregation,
    we purposely use Java 5 to catch errors in this regard. For Indigo,
    I propose we not worry about being consistent here, and just use
    Java 6 during aggregation. Some projects may still want to use 1.5
    VMs to do their pack200 ... if their adopters want it ... but I see
    no reason for mass consistency here ... if Java 6 is assumed to be
    minimum runtime VM. Any issues? Dissent?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Some concern expressed, but mostly a matter of letting people know
    and documenting options. For example, for projects that **want**
    compatibility with VMs less than 1.6, they still can, of course, but
    will no longer get "built in" test from aggregation. Plus, should
    make clear, even a VM less than 1.6 can still use a pack200 (or, an
    unpack200 executable) from another VM, such as a 1.6 distribution,
    and [specify it on their command
    line](Pack200#Pack200_Executable_location "wikilink") using
    `-Dorg.eclipse.update.jarprocessor.pack200`.*

### Issues and Proposal for 3.7 versus 4.1

  - See working notes in
    <http://wiki.eclipse.org/Indigo/HowToAddress37And41Platform>

## Other business

  - *TODO: the question of "3.7 or 4.1" came up again ... I should add a
    FAQ item*
  - ''TODO: I (dw) agreed to make initial +1, +2, ... table for project
    signup. ''

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Done. See
        [Indigo/Participating_Projects](Indigo/Participating_Projects "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - Eclipse Platform 4.1 must move to be +1 because of dependency on
    EMF. We should discuss how this will be coordinated because there
    may eventually be cyclic dependencies (JohnA).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    ''John opened  to see if part of emf could be +0.

<!-- end list -->

  - Discussion on build machine QoS (JohnA):
      - Is build machine contention/availability currently an issue for
        projects?
      - Do we need to adjust schedules to account for this?
      - Consider other measures such as reducing continuous or regular
        builds during milestone periods?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *There was agreement this might become a problem (has been in the
    past), but not sure if it currently is, and not sure what to do
    about it if/when it becomes a problem. Its hard to pick favorite
    projects or take away resources from some committers ... though is
    is a shared, constrained resource, so might come to that. And by
    "take away" it it meant to reduce, have various rules about niceness
    level that are enforced, etc.*

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *TODO: I (dw) agreed to ask webmasters if there was some way to see
    who was using what how much, as improved understanding might lead to
    better solutions.*

<!-- end list -->

  -
    ''Long term, if it is only a matter of "peak usage", may want to
    investigate (or, encourage others to investigate:) some sort of
    "cloud" solution so during final milestone/release weeks we could
    have 10 slaves, or something, whereas most of the time we just need
    one or two. ''

<!-- end list -->

  - ''Tom wondered if we need a "central" patch repository ... that
    could be "built in" to all versions of Eclipse. It was suggested to
    try to keep at project level, but agreed, some improvements might
    make that better. For example, if in EPP packages, there was more
    than one top level feature? Also, there maybe should be some other
    attributes identifying patches, such as "security fix", or something
    ... as some people may want to turn off checking for routine
    updates, but turning off security fixes should probably be a
    separate decision, as it is on many OS platforms. I was so excited,
    I opened . Plus, later, I opened  to improve the EPP package update
    story, if possible. ''

## ToDo Items

  - *Note from Wayne, to Wayne: (actually from last meeting) Remember to
    review plans starting after M4 (at latest) so questions can be
    clarified before "road map" produced.*

<!-- end list -->

  - *Wayne teased us all with promise of new tools to check CQs against
    downloads, which we projects can use ourselves ... but he wasn't
    ready to tell us about them today and he'll be saying more over next
    few days or weeks.*

<!-- end list -->

  - *dw to sort out tracking path.*

## Next Meeting

November 3, 12 noon Eastern

## Reference

[Helios_retrospective](Planning_Council/Helios_retrospective.md)

[Indigo Simultaneous
Release](Indigo/Simultaneous_Release_Plan "wikilink")

[Planning Council
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

[Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink") and
[Simultaneous Release
Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")