## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, Dec 5, 2018, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2018&amp;month=11&amp;day=07&amp;hour=11&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">11:00 EST</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>Topic: Planning Council Meeting Time: this is a recurring meeting Meet anytime</p>
<p>Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android: <a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320">https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320</a></p>
<p>Or iPhone one-tap :</p>
<p><code>   US: +16699006833,,928841320#  or +14086380968,,928841320#</code></p>
<p>Or Telephone:</p>
<p><code>   Dial(for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location)：</code><br />
<code>       US: +1 669 900 6833  or +1 408 638 0968  or +1 646 876 9923</code><br />
<code>       Canada: +1 647 558 0588</code><br />
<code>       France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188</code><br />
<code>       Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188</code><br />
<code>       United Kingdom: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088</code><br />
<code>       Switzerland: +41 (0) 31 528 0988</code><br />
<code>       Sweden: +46 (0) 8 4468 2488</code><br />
<code>       Denmark: +45 89 88 37 88</code><br />
<code>       Netherlands: +31 (0) 20 241 0288</code><br />
<code>   Meeting ID: 928 841 320</code><br />
<code>   International numbers available: </code><a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf"><code>https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf</code></a></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members

Temporary Planning Council Chair: Nick Boldt Planning Council Chair:
Melanie Bats (returns Dec 2018)

### Eclipse Foundation

  - Wayne Beaton
  - Frederic Gurr
  - Mikael Barbero

### Strategic Members

  - CA Technologies
  - CEA LIST
  - Fujitsu Limited
  - IBM (Thomas Watson)
  - Obeo (Melanie Bats)
  - Oracle (Neil Hauge)
  - Payara Services Ltd.
  - Red Hat, Inc. (Nick Boldt)
  - Robert Bosch GmbH
  - SAP SE (Stephan Merker)
  - Tomitribe

### PMC Representatives

  - Eclipse Cloud Development PMC (Martin Lippert)
  - Eclipse Project PMC (Dani Megert)
  - Eclipse EE4J PMC
  - Eclipse IoT PMC
  - LocationTech PMC
  - Eclipse Modeling Project PMC (Ed Merks)
  - Eclipse Mylyn PMC (Sam Davis)
  - PolarSys PMC
  - Eclipse Runtime Project (RT) PMC
  - Eclipse Science PMC
  - Eclipse SOA PMC (Adrian Mos)
  - Eclipse Technology PMC (Chris Aniszczyk)
  - Eclipse Tools Project PMC (Aleksandar Kurtakov)
  - Eclipse Web Tools Platform Project (WTP) PMC (Chuck Bridgham)

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

## Attendance

Write your name here if you attended and you enjoy collecting this type
of metadata.

  - Eclipse Project PMC (Dani Megert)

## Agenda

  - Nick:
    [Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=gchs7nm4nvpm837469ddj9tjlk@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York)
    updated with
    [2019-03](https://wiki.eclipse.org/Category:SimRel-2019-03) and
    [2019-06](https://wiki.eclipse.org/Category:SimRel-2019-06) dates
      - Dani: Either approve in the meeting or set a deadline
          - Dani, Nick, Alex, Wayne: approves

<!-- end list -->

  - Wayne: Process items
      - **AI**: Wayne: add item to calendar: validate participation list
        (on March 8); repeat for 2019-06 schedule
      - **AI**: Wayne document participation validation process
      - **AI**: Wayne make sure that aggrcon file touching is a MUST DO
        in
        <https://wiki.eclipse.org/SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements>
      - **AI**: Nick to talk to Wayne re: automating the validation
        process via a new job/script hosted on simrel JIPP
      - **AI**: Nick update wiki re: Jan meeting on 9th, not 2nd
        (because NYE / holidays)
      - **AI**: Wayne to remove offsets from project pages, but keep it
        in the simrel release req

<!-- end list -->

  - Fred: Simrel status
      - RC1 is due Friday, RC2 next week. No problems at the moment,
        release should be done before holidays.

<!-- end list -->

  - Wayne: Birt and DTP demoted from top level projects to subprojects
    of tools/tech.
      - **AI**: Wayne to clean up PMC rep list
      - **AI**: Wayne prune inactive members, contact members/orgs to
        find new participants -
        <https://wiki.eclipse.org/Planning_Council/2019-01-09#Strategic_Members>

### Actions from last time

Per: <https://wiki.eclipse.org/Planning_Council/November_7_2018#Agenda>

  - **AI**: Fred to delegate to web team to push all & mark red w/ bug
    details - maybe for M2?
      -
        **DONE**

<!-- end list -->

  - **AI**: Dani to email Thabang (cc: Ed) about replacing "Simrel" with
    "IDE" on download and marketing pages because "Simrel" makes his
    eyes hurt (though it should be noted that instead of calling the
    release a "train" he does refer to it as "the simrel") :P
      -
        **DONE**

<!-- end list -->

  - **AI**: Alex to talk to Wayne about appointing Sopot
      -
        **DONE** Sopot has is now an appointed member of the Eclipse
        Planning Council

<!-- end list -->

  - **AI**: Wayne: add a new date to the simrel schedule for when an
    announcement is send to cross-projects@, to report who we think is
    participating. If URLs are found w/ /latest/ or snapshot, they
    should be disabled?
      -
        **DONE** in principle. Wayne did send out the report and has
        responded to feedback to update the list of participating
        projects and versions.

<!-- end list -->

  - **AI**: Wayne: send note to cross-projects@ to announce not opting
    in
      -
        **DONE** in principle. Wayne derived and communicated the list
        of participating projects; in that communication, he provided
        instructions for opting out.

<!-- end list -->

  - **AI**: Wayne: update "ASAP" re: "Create your release record (for
    new releases)". Actual date is on/before Oct 19.
      -
        **DONE** Communication regarding participation includes a
        reminder to create a release record.

<!-- end list -->

  - **AI**: Wayne to produce documentation re: rules and send to
    planning-council list
      -
        **NOT DONE** Wayne forgets the requirements, but we think this
        might have been about participation validation / process

<!-- end list -->

  - **AI**: Fred restrict pushing to simrel w/o gerrit review
      -
        **DONE**

### New business

  - TBD

## Regrets

## Notes