## Logistics

|                |                                                                                                                                                            |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council Conference Call**                                                                                                                       |
| Date & Time:   | Wednesday, February 01, 2012, at [1200 Eastern](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2012&month=02&day=01&hour=12&min=0&sec=0&p1=179) |
| Dial-in:       | For the call-in numbers, see the "Project Review" number on [Foundation Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.       |

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Mik Kersten</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (R.... ?)</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>D</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Jesse McConnell</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC) (appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Stefan Daume</p></td>
<td><p>Cloudsmith Inc.(Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Kaloyan Raev</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Pascal Rapicault</p></td>
<td><p>Sonatype (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Christian Kurzke</p></td>
<td><p>Motorola (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Achim Loerke</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>TPTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Any?

## Indigo SR2

  - Any issues?

## Juno

### Issues or Exceptions

  - Any issues? Everyone in? Any exceptions known?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Exceptions for projects not in M4, that still will to join Juno:
      -
        Virgo approved during 1/05 meeting (from rt PMC list, will be in
        M6)
        BPEL approved on mailing list (as late for M4, but in M5)
        ~~... code recommenders (in by M5, but not in M4?) Did anyone
        bring them forward for exception?~~
          -
            Issue Resolved (good to know some people read agenda :) ...
            but, is process unclear? ... Chris? :)
        Code Recommenders approved on mailing list (as late for M4, but
        in M5).
        Others?

<!-- end list -->

  - Anyone "dropping out" that should be removed from aggregation build?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        I know there are potential, possible issues with Riena (not
        being in common repo, as _might_ not "achieve 4.2".
        Discussions on-going.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Anyone else? How to compare "participating projects" list with
        "b3aggrcon" files?

### Plans

  - anything to look at? In particular, plans specifying "planned
    support for 3.8 workbench"?

### Juno+1 Name

  - Kepler (EMO has vetted the name ... thanks Chris\!)

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Guess I should announce? Or do you want to Chris? On committers
        list?
          -
            *Chris agreed to send announcement note to 'committers
            list*'

### Other Business

  - Need discussion and decision on "what is allowed in common info
    center". Pros? Cons? Alternatives? See .

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Concern expressed for "extra work" on webmasters part but we can
        leave to them to throttle that, but no objections to following
        the "if you run on Indigo, you can be in Indigo Help" (that is,
        not that confusing if then not in Indigo repo). It was also
        suggested there might be easier ways to let projects "add their
        own jars to info center" (reducing workload on webmasters,
        allowing faster turn around, etc.) ... suggested to open
        enhancement request in bugzilla if desired, as slightly separate
        issue.''

<!-- end list -->

  - Thoughts on "Java Development Tools" category? See  \[Immediate
    issue has been resolved, but, not many comments ... so, feel free to
    comment or open new bugs on "categories"\].

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *No particular comment ... might want to change the current
        label of "Programming Languages" to "Programming Languages and
        Tools" or something ... but, the idea of having one category for
        all languages was thought good.*

<!-- end list -->

  - Fair (and desired?) to add "provide non-greedy repository" to
    requirements? 'Should' or 'must'? See
    [Provide_optimized_p2_repository
    section](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements#Provide_optimized_p2_repository_.28partially_tested.29 "wikilink").
    I propose:

*Clarification on 01/23/2012: the repositories produced and contributed
(for Juno and subsequent releases) must use p2 publishers that use
greedy='false' by default. See  and the [p2 Publisher
wiki](http://wiki.eclipse.org/Equinox/p2/Publisher) for some history and
details on this issue of greedy vs. non-greedy requirements.*

  -

      -
        *It was affirmed this is important and ok to add to "must do"
        requirements. If, for some reason, a project can not, they can
        always file for an exception and we can assess impact then.*

<!-- end list -->

  - Project Priorities: Please review and be prepared to discuss this
    proposed "policy document" about [project
    priorities](SimRel/Priorities "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Good discussion*
      -
        *Somme concern about "E" \[now "F", after edits\] ... might be
        some merit to it, but should be reworded to emphasize
        "abnormally high" amount of CQs, not simply "number of".*
        ''Suggested to mention LTS, as we do EPP.
        *Some tangential discussion to get more detailed about ... such
        as, are there ways still to simplify the process? Such as for
        "minor" updates to a package. Will continue at next meeting.*
        *Is was suggested a "flow chart" was needed (like the IP
        process?) but a) I think that was made in jest, and b) think it
        will be "next year" before we could formalize into a heuristic.*
        *Will discus more at March meeting, before considering the
        document "reviewed and approved" by Planning Council.*
        *No overall objection to having PC state priorities, but some
        concern that a lot depends on the context in which the
        priorities were needed or used. Perhaps add a note these are
        priorities for producing a timely, predictable release train for
        adopters, products, and projects, and not that related to
        "importance" of a project, which could depend on factors such as
        innovation, demand, and others.*

<!-- end list -->

  - Still comfortable with "4.2 as primary"?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    ''Overall, Mike Wilson's note to cross-project list was
    "comforting", but still some concern that overall, to the general
    user, it might seem like a step backwards, if they lose function or
    performance (and, hence, hurt the reputation of Eclipse) ... that is
    a strong **if** they lose function or performance (which is
    currently not known, just feared). In particular, they might not
    "see" any benefit to using 4.2 since much of the improvement is in
    the internal architecture, for the future. \[One member, you can
    guess who :), made an analogy to p2 ... had to push trough a rough
    patch to end up with a much better solution ... and wondered if 4.2
    would be like that?\] It was suggested that "messaging" will be very
    important, to set expectations appropriately. dw TODO: send note to
    McQ with suggestion that he (and Eclipse PMC) and Ian work on
    appropriate messaging. ''

<!-- end list -->

  - Anything else?

<!-- end list -->

  -

    Not known yet, but some solution is likely needed, and that might
    require a "mass change" to not "packing" (and not signing?) nested
    jars.

## Next Meeting

  - March 7, 2012 (our regular "first Wednesday" meeting, at Noon
    Eastern).

## Reference

  -
    [Juno Wiki page](Juno "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Indigo
    retrospective](Indigo_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")