## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, February 3, 2016, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2016&amp;month=02&amp;day=03&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Sam Davis</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Alexander Nyssen</p></td>
<td><p>Itemis</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Nick Boldt</p></td>
<td><p>Redhat (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y (plus Michael to "listen in")</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Remi Schnekenburger</p></td>
<td><p>CEA List (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(has PMC rep; Dani Megert)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(was John Arthorne)</p></td>
<td><p>Cloud (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(was Gary Xue)</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(has/had PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(was Rajeev Dayal)</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Welcome Alexander Nyssen as new Planning Council member representing
    Itemis.

<!-- end list -->

  - Any others?

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

## Mars Planning

  - Mars.2 issues?
  - Tracking participation in minor releases

## Neon Planning (and beyond)

  - Should we change "maintenance" staging name now? for Mars.2? See .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- \[See also  for unreleated additional URL.\]

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- Still "todo" item. (i.e. not done yet, apologies for delay)

<!-- end list -->

  - Release Policy vs. Release mechanics. This is being tracked in .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    One proposal: have all features in EPP packages be "root features"
    and establish a procedure of adding new code to the Sim. Release
    repository "at any time" (or, say, once per month?) -- say for "hot
    fixes" only ... say after review/approval by Planning Council?
    AND, to avoid "contamination" of update site lists (without the user
    being in charge of it) change p2 install/update to not allow the
    addition of reference repositories during feature installs. But, it
    has been stated, adopters still want that ability ... so, not sure
    how "we" could ever know the difference.
      -
        Perhaps could solve with a "product preference" so EPP could
        "set" the preference one way, and adopters creating products
        could set it another way? Or, direct users to do so?
          -
            Easy for me to say "change p2" :) but ... who would do the
            work?
        Perhaps solve simply with a "policy" of "do not add reference
        repositories" (with feature installs)?
          -
            But without some way to enforce it, I think some projects
            still would.
        This "reference repositories issue" was a discussed as a concern
        at Architecture Council
          -
            Apparently there have been cases of users getting "mixed"
            installs because reference repositories are sometimes very
            broad. \[I hope I've captured the issue correctly, I was not
            there, so please correct if I read it wrong.\]
    Does Oomph solve this problem at all? Does it have a possible
    solution?
      -
        From [Ed's note to ide-dev
        list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/ide-dev/msg01043.html),
        it sounds like it solves the issue of updating non-root features
        (as long as they are "in the repository"?).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *We had a constructive discussion about this issue, even if not
    complete agreement. We, at least, have some items to investigate.*
      -
        \- *Markus will propose to EPP packages that they (or, he) begin
        building EPP packages with their "main features" in EPP products
        as "root features". Thus, if we updated the Sim. Release repo,
        users would get a "fix" via "check for update". Note: I believe
        projects would have to come out with a new "release" of the
        features -- that is "patch features" would not automatically be
        found -- I THINK. Another implication is that "check for
        updates" would take longer, I believe, since more features to
        "fetch" to see if they have changed.*
        \- *With the above root features in place, it would be easier to
        do an off-schedule re-build of the Sim. Release repository --
        with just the "changed features" being used as input. We would
        not rebuild the packages, just the repository. This should
        minimize the amount of work required from other projects.*
        \- *The issue for which there was still disagreement is how to
        manage these off-schedule changes. I think there are basically
        three proposals, and we agreed that by next meeting we would
        list "pros and cons" of each:*
          -
            \* *A. Status quo: even if not a recommended practice,
            projects can add "reference repositories" when their feature
            is installed, so their users can get easy updates when ever
            and what ever the project desires. No Planning Council
            involvement.*
            \* *B. Provide a "built-in" URL, disabled by default, that
            would point to a composite repo named something like
            "hotfixes" or simply "fixes" or perhaps even "extras" --
            depending on the policy that was adopted. The argument being
            that then at least "what projects do there" is a little more
            visible. Minimal Planning Council involvement.*
            \* *C. Provide a process, and make it easier, for projects
            to contribute off-schedule "service" and re-spin the Sim.
            Release repository. This would likely be a special
            repository, where only the "changed bits" would be included,
            and the rest point to the previous, unchanged repository (a
            "trusted repository" in b3 aggregator terminology). The
            Planning Council would briefly review these "requests for
            off-schedule builds" primarily to make sure they were
            "blocking" or "critical" bugs, and perhaps to briefly assess
            if there was any chance of impacting other projects. i.e. a
            change in a "leaf" project or a "leaf" function would be
            pretty easy to "approve", but if someone wanted to make a
            big change to the way "jobs" worked, then it would take more
            review and/or testing (if allowed at all).*

<!-- end list -->

  - Rolling "release" issue.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        I have sometimes heard it suggested we allow more of a
        "continuous release". Is this something we should discuss?
        Should we have some long term planning for it? Such as, what
        would it take to accomplish that?
        This could be planned with or without the "beta stream"
        mechanisms sometimes discussed.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    '' Did not discuss much during this meeting, other than to note
    similarity to above issue.''

<!-- end list -->

  - Should the ability to update from yearly release to yearly release
    be a 'requirement'?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        What would this take? (Such as features are never "just removed"
        but are replaced or transitioned?)
        What testing would projects have to do?
        May become "defacto requirement" once  is implemented.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Seemed to be no objection to "trying it" and with Neon we will "try
    it" by having the "streamless-URL" proposed in . For Neon, we will
    not use that URL automatically anywhere but users can add it if they
    would like. Will be interesting to see if many bug reports occur
    from people trying that "update to next main release" (that is, from
    Mars to Neon).*

## Neon + 1 Planning

  - How's "naming" coming?
  - Poll: <https://www.eclipse.org/neon/planning/poll.php> -\>
    <http://civs.cs.cornell.edu/cgi-bin/results.pl?id=E_dd4ff581da35bddc>
  - Current winner (with 242 total votes) and 8 days left: Oxygen
  - Per  Oxygen was approved as the name for the 2017 Simultaneous
    Release.

## EclipseCon Face-to-face

  - Joint meeting with Arch. Council.
  - Participate on
    [EclipseCon2016/Councils_Face-to-Face](EclipseCon2016/Councils_Face-to-Face "wikilink").
  - ~~Suggest times on [doodle
    poll](http://doodle.com/poll/7xphrzbeis678d5n).~~ Thursday, March 10

## New Business

  - Nick suggested moving b3 editor to Gerrit to facilitate
    contributions and evolution of b3

<!-- end list -->

  -
    David vetoed that change as being "not worth it (at this point in
    time)" according to him.

<!-- end list -->

  - Great Fixes for Neon

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Wayne outlined his proposal for "great fixes" for Neon. It is
    desired the winners (3 or so per milestone) be announced
    concurrently with M6 and M7. He believes he can automate, via Git,
    the task of finding non-committers who have made a lot of
    contributions to one or more projects at Eclipse, for Neon. He would
    like to identify about 10 candidates, and then have Architecture and
    Planning Council members vote on who had the "most impact". There
    was no disagreement with this approach, and the PC members thought
    they would have time to participate. Details remain to be worked
    out.*

## Next Meeting

  - March 2, 2016 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting (The week before
    EclipseCon\!)

## Reference

  -
    [Neon Wiki page](Neon "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")