# Indigo Planning Council retrospective

These notes were collected at the end of the Indigo Release, at 9/7/2011
Planning Council call, specifically just to collect them. And not to
solve issues, or even necessarily to suggest solutions, but just to
capture issues (good and bad) while the release was still fresh on our
minds. Where solutions are suggested below, it is intended to primarily
better capture the issue discussed .. not to dictate a or pre-judge a
solution. Action plans and solutions will be discussed later.

## History

Indigo is the sixth simultaneous release, following Callisto, Europa,
Ganymede, Galileo, Helios. The Planning Council meets regularly to come
up with plans and requirements. Eclipse Foundation projects can
voluntarily join the simultaneous release. For meeting minutes, see
<http://wiki.eclipse.org/Planning_Council>.

## Comments from PC during 9/7 meeting

These rough notes were captured from the "brainstorming" session. We
will refine in future meetings.

### Positive things mentioned

communication was good, such as on cross-project mailing list,

seemed a little smoother than previous cycles

builds went smoother, mostly passing, only one respin needed

pretty standard, little hassle

quality was good

liked that "checklist" was de-emphasised (i.e. that I did not hound
everyone to complete it, if they did not want to :)

happy with people willing to help get through issues

no surprise, dates as expected

### Things that could have been better

could use more "in depth" testing or stress testing, especially of EPP
packages, to catch regressions

some issues with b3 aggregator editor (over all, some thought editor
hard to use)

  -
    would expect "repository" view,
    would be nice to show how site would look "in the end"
    would be nice to make part of build, instead of separate process and
    edits
    many project "hand edit" files, when b3 aggregator editor used other
    files change too (as whole model is saved)
    when working with build files, prefer not to need "eclipse" (too
    heavy), just adding a file would be better
    some use "constant repository" to "get latest" (pros and cons ...
    need to be careful)
    could be be easier to only "change URL" ... such as perhaps in a
    properties file

late changes to EPP packages (e.g. EGit, etc.);

easier builds (or example builds) would be good (Tycho, maven, etc., is
working in right direction)
(Jesse reported that he, Chris A., and Dave Carver are working on some
improvements in "dash" project).

Some mentioned they liked that more and more projects are using Tycho

Many requirements seem oriented to "IDE", but not "runtime". Maybe we
could distinguish better in write-ups or statements of requirements.

## Reference

See also [last year's
retrospective](Helios_retrospective.md)

See also others' retrospectives (which may or may not be related to
"simultaneous release", per se)

  - [Web Tools
    Platform](Team_thoughts_on_continuous_improvement_33 "wikilink")

[Indigo](Category:Indigo "wikilink")