## Logistics

**Pay attention time has changed, the meeting is one hour earlier than
before**

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Tuesday, July 10, 2018, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2018&amp;month=07&amp;day=10&amp;hour=11&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">11:00 EDT</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>Topic: Planning Council Meeting Time: this is a recurring meeting Meet anytime</p>
<p>Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android: <a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320">https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320</a></p>
<p>Or iPhone one-tap :</p>
<p><code>   US: +16699006833,,928841320#  or +14086380968,,928841320#</code></p>
<p>Or Telephone:</p>
<p><code>   Dial(for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location)：</code><br />
<code>       US: +1 669 900 6833  or +1 408 638 0968  or +1 646 876 9923</code><br />
<code>       Canada: +1 647 558 0588</code><br />
<code>       France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188</code><br />
<code>       Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188</code><br />
<code>       United Kingdom: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088</code><br />
<code>       Switzerland: +41 (0) 31 528 0988</code><br />
<code>       Sweden: +46 (0) 8 4468 2488</code><br />
<code>       Denmark: +45 89 88 37 88</code><br />
<code>       Netherlands: +31 (0) 20 241 0288</code><br />
<code>   Meeting ID: 928 841 320</code><br />
<code>   International numbers available: </code><a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf"><code>https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf</code></a></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members

Planning Council Chair: Melanie Bats

### Eclipse Foundation

  - Wayne Beaton
  - Frederic Gurr
  - Mikael Barbero

### Strategic Members

  - CA Technologies
  - CEA LIST
  - Ericsson AB (Marc-Andre Laperle)
  - IBM (Thomas Watson)
  - itemis AG (Alexander Nyssen)
  - Obeo (Melanie Bats)
  - Oracle (Neil Hauge)
  - Red Hat, Inc. (Nick Boldt)
  - Robert Bosch GmbH
  - SAP SE (Stephan Merker)

### PMC Representatives

  - Business Intelligence and Reporting Tools (BIRT) PMC (Gary Xue)
  - Data Tools Platform PMC (Brian Payton)
  - Eclipse Cloud Development PMC (Martin Lippert)
  - Eclipse Project PMC (Dani Megert)
  - IoT
  - LocationTech Technology
  - Eclipse Modeling Project PMC (Ed Merks)
  - Mylyn (Application Lifecycle Tools) PMC (Sam Davis)
  - PolarSys
  - Eclipse Runtime Project (RT) PMC
  - Eclipse Science
  - Service Oriented Architecture PMC (Adrian Mos)
  - Technology PMC (Chris Aniszczyk)
  - Tools Project PMC (Aleksandar Kurtakov)
  - Eclipse Web Tools Platform Project (WTP) PMC (Carl Anderson)

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

## Agenda

  - Need chair for September, October & November meetings
  - Photon status : MPC request for respin
  - 2018-09 : Status & SimRel URLs
  - Need to update this document / appoint new owner (last update 2016,
    David Williams) :
    <https://wiki.eclipse.org/SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements#State_intent_early_.28M4.29>

## Attendance

Frederic Gurr, Mikaël Barbero, Nick Boldt, Mélanie Bats

## Regrets

Dani Megert, Martin Lippert, Alex Kurtakov

## Notes

### Chair for September, October & November meetings

Mélanie Bats will not be available for September, October and November
due to her maternity leave, someone from the community should take the
chair position for this period, in last fallback, Wayne could take the
role but it would be prefered if someone else from the community take
it. Mélanie will send a mail to the mailing list about this topic.

### Photon status : MPC request for respin

It was discussed that the process was slow, we had few votes and lots of
undecided votes, so it did not come to a conclusion on the mailing list.
Fred argued that the problem still exist and that we can fix it even if
it is late. Nick propose that we could fix it for M1 of the next release
2018-09. Mélanie proposed that it is no worhty on a repsin but to just
add a note on the web site about the spacing issue on windows. Mélanie
will send a mail on the planning council mailing list to inform everyone
about this decision.

### 2018-09 : Status

  - SimRel URLs

Fred has created the URLs 2018-09 according to the same pattern as
before : <http://download.eclipse.org/staging/2018-09/>
<http://download.eclipse.org/releases/2018-09/> See the bugzilla
[\#536420](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=536420)

  - Update wiki

[SimRel Plan
Requirements](https://wiki.eclipse.org/SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements)
on the wiki must be updated. Mélanie will update it and planning council
members will review it.

  - Build maintenance

Fred explained that he is working on config optimization on the Jenkins
and the Tycho builder in order to simplify the build job maintenance.
Mikaël added that they are migrating to the new infra to test pipelines.

  - Opt-in process

The opt-in process is still not clear for everyone. It was written on
the
[FAQ](https://wiki.eclipse.org/SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Cycle_FAQ) :
"The period to join the simultaneous release is at the beginning of any
cycle, four times a year. The project needs to declare its intention to
join before the +0 (Friday) of the M1 release week." This means that
projects should opt-in before July13th for the 2018-09 release. We have
discussed by the past that the opt-in would be automatic and just
opt-out was needed. We agreed during the call that the opt-in will occur
once a year after the June release and means that project will be in for
a year. Mélanie will send a mail on the mailing list to get the
approbation of the planning council and then if it is ok will clarify
the situation on the FAQ and on cross-project.

  - Missing deadlines

Some deadlines are not defined for CQ, IPLog... for 2018-09, Mélanie
will send a mail to EMO in order to get those dates.