## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, June 07, 2017, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2017&amp;month=06&amp;day=07&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Attendees

  - Wayne Beaton (EF)
  - Stephan Merker (SAP)
  - Michael Barbero (EF)
  - Sam Davis (Mylyn)
  - Carl Anderson (WTP)
  - Tom Watson (IBM)
  - Dani Megert (Eclipse)
  - Gary Xue (BIRT)
  - Alex Kurtakov (Tools)
  - Melanie Bats (OBEO)

### Regrets

  - Alexander Nyssen
  - Martin Lippert
  - Adrian Mos

## Agenda

### Oxygen

Build seems to be in good shape.

{Bug|517935} Potential issues. Lucene 5 and 6. Not an issue with the
release per se, but could manifest if somebody tries to add features
(third party) that pull in Lucene 5.

Eclipse PMC discussed adopting new Jetty version very late. Eclipse PMC
decided not to move to the latest. May adopt in point release.
**Recommendation**, please nobody update Jetty in the simultaneous
release. Recommendation has been made to the community via
cross-project-dev-issues.

Action Item (Wayne, Fred): put the Oxygen.n dates into the calendar
(https://wiki.eclipse.org/Oxygen/Simultaneous_Release_Plan)

### Java 9

Dani: JPMS JSR was voted down. New vote coming up.

Java 9 GA will likely move to Sept. 21 (Dani figures that date is 80%
likely). If the second vote on JPMS is “no”, then the next delay will be
longer (at least three months).

Proposal to move Oxygen.1 to match the Java 9 release date.

Current proposal to have a switch (on by default) to give warning when
an attempt is made to access internal (or otherwise inaccessible) APIs.

Eclipse JDT is focused on how the documentation is captured. The EG has
filled many of the holes.

Oxygen.1 is early September (9th?). Should we move the Oxygen.1 release
to match the Java 9 date?

**Action** (Wayne): Set up a call with stakeholders (including marketing
team) to sort out what we should do? (see options below).

Can’t just drop in the Java 9 code and go. Could impact the Java 8
compiler. We need to test.

Proposal: On September 21. JDT produces a release candidate build that
includes Java 9. Move the Oxygen.1 release to second week of October.

No answer today, but we need to have an answer on the next call.

  - Option \#1: Move the Oxygen.1 date
  - Option \#2: Add an extra release in October
  - Option \#3: Roll out Java 9 with Oxygen.2 in December (with
    Marketplace-based rollout in the interim)