## Logistics

|                |                                                                                                                                                        |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council Conference Call**                                                                                                                   |
| Date & Time:   | Wednesday, June 06, 2012, at [1200 Eastern](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2012&month=06&day=06&hour=12&min=0&sec=0&p1=179) |
| Dial-in:       | For the call-in numbers, see the "Project Review" number on [Foundation Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.   |

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Mik Kersten</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Jesse McConnell</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>D (to Tom)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC) (appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Stefan Daume</p></td>
<td><p>Cloudsmith Inc.(Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Kaloyan Raev</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Igor Fedorenko</p></td>
<td><p>Sonatype (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Christian Kurzke</p></td>
<td><p>Motorola (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Achim Loerke</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - ?

## Juno

  - Ready to release?

<!-- end list -->

  - any thoughts on "non greedy" publishers? (Where did we go wrong?\!
    :) More seriously, Jetty and ECF have made recent changes to be
    "non-greedy" which I think is good but **might** cause some churn.
    dw to send out note to cross-project list this afternoon.

<!-- end list -->

  - On the topic of "non participating project dependencies"

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        <http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02027.html>
        We have discussed and decided this recently: See
        [March_07_2012\#What_to_do_about_Papyrus_.28and_non_released_XWT_dependency.29](Planning_Council/March_07_2012#What_to_do_about_Papyrus_.28and_non_released_XWT_dependency.29.md)
        and . The conclusion was:

<cite> A project can not be in the Sim. Release, or Released at all, if
they include things that are unreleased from other projects (and this is
true of any release, not just Sim. Release).

A project can include releases from other Eclipse projects, even if that
other project is itself not part of the Simultaneous Release. This still
requires the "other project's release" meets all the requirements for
Release and Sim. Release ... signed jars, about.html file, etc. This is
conceptually just like including a third party package from Orbit ...
the original authors do not "participate" in the Release, but the
bundles meet all the release requirements. </cite>

*dw to send note clarifying policy. For future reference: here is the
FAQ about our policies: See
[SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_FAQ\#Policy_FAQs](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_FAQ#Policy_FAQs "wikilink")*

### Issues or Exceptions

#### Any issues? Everyone in? Any exceptions known?

  -
    Exceptions for projects not in M4, that still will to join Juno:
      -
        Virgo approved during 1/05 meeting (from rt PMC list, will be in
        M6)
        BPEL approved on mailing list (as late for M4, but in M5)
        Code Recommenders approved on mailing list (as late for M4, but
        in M5).
        Koneki project approved on mailing list (as late for M5, but
        joining in M6).
        Papyrus
        Others?

#### Anyone "dropping out" that should be removed from aggregation build?

  - Assuming, for now, all "legal requirements" can be met? \[In future
    years, should we have stricter deadline? e.g. RC2?\]

<!-- end list -->

  - ?

### Other Business

  - \[TODO\] dw to follow up with Andrew to get
    [Asterisk](Asterisk "wikilink") bridge for planning council calls.

<!-- end list -->

  - John mentioned at end of meeting, for awareness, that current plan
    from Eclipse Project is that there will be no 3.9 next year, only
    4.3, for Kepler.

## Next Meeting

  - We will skip July.

<!-- end list -->

  - August 1, 2012 (our regular "first Wednesday" meeting, at Noon
    Eastern).

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Conduct (or begin) our yearly "debrief" on what went well, what
        could be better (finish in September if needed, and in September
        begin "planning for Kepler").

## Reference

  -
    [Juno Wiki page](Juno "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Indigo
    retrospective](Indigo_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")