## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, June 8, 2016, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2016&amp;month=06&amp;day=08&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Martin Lippert</p></td>
<td><p>Cloud (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Sam Davis</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Marc Khouzam</p></td>
<td><p>Ericsson</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Alexander Nyssen</p></td>
<td><p>itemis AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Nick Boldt</p></td>
<td><p>Redhat (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Remi Schnekenburger</p></td>
<td><p>CEA List (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>EPP (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(has PMC rep; Dani Megert)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Gary Xue)</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(has/had PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Rajeev Dayal)</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Welcome Marc Khouzam as the Ericsson representative to Planning
    Council.

<!-- end list -->

  - Any others?

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

## Neon maintenance

  - Dates (and RCs) for Neon.1 (etc.)

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        ''Nick provided proposal on 'discussion page'. **ACTION ITEM**
        He will "flush out", especially for M4 and M6 too (and M1 and M3
        and M7 :) -- just no "update releases" with those
        ''One "new thing" to announce to Cross-Project list, once
        formally established, is that "new projects joining the train
        must declare their intent and be in the Sim. Release build by
        Checkpoint 1". This would be roughly August 1st, for example,
        for the September release."

## Oxygen Planning

  - There has been a lot of discussion about "giving up release name"
    and using "date" instead.

**ACTION ITEM:** Wayne to discuss with Ian on how best to get more data
from our community of users.

''This is still a "hot topic", but deferred discussion until hear more
from Wayne on if more "input from community of users" can be expected.

### old (ongoing) stuff

  - Release Policy vs. Release mechanics. This is being tracked in .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    In M6 we changed to have (nearly) all features to be "root features.
    Now what? That is, can we "stop" adding "reference repositories" via
    feature p2.inf files?

<!-- end list -->

  - "Rolling release" issue.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        I have sometimes heard it suggested we allow more of a
        "continuous release". Is this something we should discuss?
        Should we have some long term planning for it? Such as, what
        would it take to accomplish that?
        This could be planned with or without the "beta stream"
        mechanisms sometimes discussed.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    '' Did not discuss much during this meeting, other than to note
    similarity to above issue.''

<!-- end list -->

  - Should the ability to update from yearly release to yearly release
    be a 'requirement'?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        **Impossible now, for Neon. Right? (for EPP Packages) Do we
        still need "streamless-URL" now?** I am assuming "no".

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        ***ACTION ITEM** from 6/8 meeting. Doug volunteered to "take up"
        this item to better specify "what does it mean" and "what will
        it take" to update across major releases. \[Doug, it is up to
        you, but I suggest you form a small team of like 3 people, such
        as Ian and Dani or, others who know some of the technical
        issues, to help if they are able and willing.\] The goal being
        just a more specific statement of what it means, and what
        projects have to do differently for Oxygen. That is, we don't
        need to reach Nirvana in one release cycle.*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        What would this take? (Such as features are never "just removed"
        but are replaced or transitioned?)
        Preferences, views, etc. have to "migrate" (if their ID
        changes).
        What testing would projects have to do?
        May become "defacto requirement" once  is implemented.
          -
            For Neon we will not have a "streamless" URL, since "won't
            work" for upgrading to Neon for the EPP packages.

## New Business

  - *The [newly proposed download
    page](http://staging.eclipse.org/downloads/) was raised as a
    potential issue. Technically "not our business, but belongs to the
    Eclipse Foundation" but am sure they would like to hear our comments
    and views. Comment in .*

<!-- end list -->

  - ''Wayne could not make the meeting, but posted a [message to our
    mailing
    list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02606.html)
    about concern over some specific projects -- some of which may have
    to be "removed" from the train. But, in addition, expressed concern
    over "the process".

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- ''I agree and commented on a similar issue on [cross-project
    list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg13122.html)
    about two projects who "declared intent", but thought they could
    join the build at the last minute. ''
    \- *I wondered out loud if it was time for more of a Sim. Release
    process where projects had to "prove they were ready to be in the
    Sim. Release" instead of us just saying what they needed to do, and
    then assume they were doing it. We did not discuss at this meeting,
    but, for example, I mean like a checklist (web app) that has to be
    updated every milestone? Just an idea.*

## Next Meeting

  - August 3, 2016 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting -- We always skip
    July, since we "just shipped", and due to popular holidays. BUT,
    remember, business continues on the mailing list\!

## Reference

  -
    Draft [Eclipse Project Branding
    Requirements](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/trademarks.php)
    (Wayne)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Neon Wiki page](Neon "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")