## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, June 3, 2015, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2015&amp;month=06&amp;day=03&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>John Arthorne (occasional)</p></td>
<td><p>Cloud (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Steffen Pingel (Sam Davis)</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Max Andersen? (and Nick Boldt)</p></td>
<td><p>Redhat (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Remi Schnekenburger</p></td>
<td><p>CEA List (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Rajeev Dayal</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Welcome ...

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like.

## Mars Planning

  - Any issues?

:\* What happened to "WindowBuilder"?

## Progress on Action Items

  - Improving user experience in finding right function to install. For
    latest ideas, see

<!-- end list -->

  -

    \- Create a Marketplace for the simultaneous release.

    "The action that \[Wayne thinks\] we should take is to shut down the
    Eclipse Project market and close this bug as WONTFIX."

<!-- end list -->

  - Continuing Discussion of if and how to change "yearly release"?

:\* I have started a ["design" wiki
page](SimRel/ChangingProcessAndTiming "wikilink"), to act as a "design
document", to help centralize the main points we have discussed.

:\* Notes from the last meeting:

<hr/>

  - Seemed to be rough agreement that to "release more frequently" would
    be good ... for projects and perception.
  - Was discussion that "6 per year" too many ... "2 per year" not
    enough. So settled on "4 per year" as a working assumption.

:\* Did not really discuss WHEN they would be (which months), but (I
think) general agreement they should be regular, and predictable.

:\* Did not really discuss what to call them. We want to convey they are
true releases, but, releases with no subsequent service release.

  - "SR" name especially bad for perception, since it is not really just
    "service releases" any more.
  - But, even if we had 4 releases per year, some might put in "just
    service", some might put in new features, so adds some complexity on
    what and how to communicate (with each other, and community).
  - We would always (still) need "two streams" going ... one for "next
    immediate release", ... another stream for "long term work". (Or,
    may vary by project?)

:\* We did NOT discuss how to manage that ... would "long term work" be
merged into "release" stream at certain points?

  - We would (still) want something like a yearly "LTS Release".
  - We did say it would take at least 2 months for us to have a concrete
    proposal.

<hr/>

:\* Notes from this meeting

<hr/>

:\* Need to emphasize (at least to ourselves) that one of goals is to
change perceptions.

::\* Current perception is that Eclipse is slow moving, with "new
things" only coming out yearly. While this is not technically true, it
is the perception.

:\* Point made that to call them "one major release" and "3 minor
releases" would be more accurate than "4 releases".

::\* We would expect at most "minor field" only updates (not major, API
breaking, field changes).

::\* But new features can still be added.

::\* And new projects can still join. (Need to codify what's required,
especially in terms of "join early").

:\* The minor releases should all be upgradeable from previous.

::\* Implies some constraints even on "non API" methods continuing to
work, if used by others as if API.

::\* General agreement that "UI can change" (but, hard to know at the
moment, if there are some limits ... such as impacts to translations,
etc.)

:\* We may want to codify different rules for the different "categories"
of 0, +1, +2, +3.

::\* Some doubted we could codify that, but could at least mention "good
will" and "cooperation" between the different levels

:\* Some wanted new requirement to be upgradeable year to year, as well
as from minor to minor.

::\* Hard to know, at present, if that is possible, or what new work it
would involve?

::\* But we should at least understand what it would take, and if there
are inhibitors to doing that, see if they can be addressed.

:\* The point was made that some projects, even now, have their own
milestone schedule and builds, but skip putting things in Sim. Release
train "until the end" which then causes surprise.

::\* Was wondered if we could improve our automation to 'detect' when no
changes have been made, in Sim. Release, so then at least there would be
a record of it -- something to open bugs about, or to codify that
projects "must" contribute, if they have changes.

::\* (This didn't come up, in the abstract, but there was a known case,
I believe Sapphire was mentioned.)

<hr/>

## New Business

  -
    \* ?

## Next Meeting

  - Possible meetup during EclipseCon France - see
    [PlanningCouncilToulouse](PlanningCouncilToulouse "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  - August 5, 2015 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting -- We traditionally
    skip July, since a) just released b) Holidays and vacations.

## Reference

  -
    2013 EclipseCon face-to-face follow-through action items. For
    original meeting notes, see
    [March_24_2013](Planning_Council/March_24_2013.md)
    and for discussion leading to action items, see
    [April_10_2013](Planning_Council/April_10_2013.md).
    For last status update, see
    [May_8_2013](Planning_Council/May_8_2013.md).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Mars Wiki page](Mars "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")