## Logistics

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council Conference Call**                                                                                                                                                      |
| Date & Time:   | Wednesday, Mar 04 2009, at [1600 UTC / 0900 SFO / 1200 NYC / 1700 London / 1800 Berlin](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2009&month=3&day=4&hour=17&min=0&sec=0) |
| Dial-in:       | For the call-in numbers, see the "Project Review" number on [Foundation Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.                                      |

## Attendees

|             |
| ----------- |
| width="30%" |

|                      |   |
| -------------------- | - |
| Chris Aniszczyk      | Y |
| Cedric Brun          | Y |
| Oliver Cole          | Y |
| Stefan Daume         | Y |
| Brian Fitzpatrick    | Y |
| Bjorn Freeman-Benson | ? |
| Doug Gaff            | Y |
| John Graham          | ? |
| Neil Hauge           | Y |
| Mika Hoikkala        | ? |
| Anthony Hunter       | Y |
| Oisin Hurley         | Y |
| Markus Knauer        | N |
| Christian Kurzke     | ? |
| Wenfeng Li           | ? |
| Ed Merks             | Y |
| Mike Milinkovich     | ? |
| Philippe Mulet       | ? |
| James Saliba         | ? |
| Georg Schmidt        | ? |
| Karsten Schmidt      | ? |
| Thomas Watson        | Y |
| David Williams       | Y |

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>

## Topics

  - Build update

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Currently Riena is breaking .. we assume 'build break'
        notification is working
        We are currently working toward M6 (we missed M5)
        Projects need to remember to "stop" contributing once they
        deliver milestone to Galileo, until milestone is declared.

<!-- end list -->

  - Review [project
    status](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/galileo_status.php) and
    determine actions to take.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        PMC reps to follow-up:
          -
            ECF - Tom
            EMFT - Ed
            EPP - Chris (I will update bugzilla until the weekend - and
            I don't see any problems so far (Markus))
            VTP - Chris

<!-- end list -->

  - Decide on our EclipseCon meeting

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Sunday, 2-3, tentative

<!-- end list -->

  - Name that train

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Anthony volunteered to talk to Bjorn, perhaps turn the proposed
        "contest" into a poster session

<!-- end list -->

  - Need to confirm all of Planning Council is invited to StAC meeting,
    Sunday 3-5

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Confirmed: Yes. All Planning Council members are considered StAC
        members.

## Reference Links

[Galileo Simultaneous Release](Galileo_Simultaneous_Release "wikilink")

[Planning Council
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)