## Logistics

|                |                                              |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council EclipseCon face-to-face** |
| Date & Time:   | Sunday, Mar 22 2009, at 2:00 Pacific time    |
| Location:      | Bayshore Room at the Hyatt                   |
| Dial-in:       | \[no dial in planned\]                       |

## Attendees

  -
    David Williams, Chair (and WTP)
    Brian Fitzpatrick DTP
    Wenfeng Li - BIRT
    Anthony Hunter, Tools
    Markus Knauer, EclipseSource
    Chris Aniszczyk, Technology
    Oliver Cole, TPTP (half of meeting)
    Tom Watson, RT, Equinox
    Doug Schaefer, CDT, Tools (Ad Hoc),

#### Regrets

  -
    Oisin Hurley, Stp PMC
    Neil Hague, Oracle

#### Did not hear from

  -
    Stefan Daume Cloudsmith Inc. Strategic Developer
    A. Doug Gaff Dsdp PMC
    John Graham Red Hat, Inc. appointed
    Mika Hoikkala Nokia Strategic Developer
    Christian Kurzke Motorola Strategic Developer
    Philippe Mulet Eclipse PMC
    James Saliba CA Inc. Strategic Developer
    Georg Schmidt brox IT-Solutions GmbH Strategic Developer
    Karsten Schmidt SAP AG Strategic Developer

<!-- end list -->

  - Action: need to contact (some of the) above to see if still accurate

## Topics

  - Build update - M6 complete (or completing?)

<!-- end list -->

  -   - 'All except STP (as indicated in the bug) and Rienna are
        installing locally. I can do a full rebuild to get JWT and
        Buckminster in a build and try to promote it, but I expect we
        won't want to declare an M6 until we get the \[SDKprofile bug,
        bug 269468,\] resolved.'

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Later in week, declared with the working subset and work
        continues trying to fix build/others.

<!-- end list -->

  - Review [project
    status](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/galileo_status.php) and
    determine actions to take.
      -   - VTP was obvious outlier (having marked nothing). Chris
            followed up with them, and later in week communicated they
            no longer plan to be part of Galileo. Need to update
            "intent" bug.
          - Anthony to check with M2M (required for GMF, but he'll help
            them get current) and other Modeling Projects.

      - Revisit [branding + naming on the about
        dialog](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=252813),
        we require clear conventions.

          - Spelled out basic rules. ACTION: need to update
            bug/communicate to list. Provider name should always start
            with "Eclipse ..." followed by project name. It is (still)
            up to each PMC to decide how best to describe their project
            in a meaningful, balanced fashion (either as one top level
            one or as multiple pieces). Avoid special symbols (e.g. ':'
            or "-") unless they are part of the project name. Avoid
            acronyms (unless in common use in software industry, such as
            XML, or PHP). Capitalization should follow "headline-sytyle
            capitalization": The only words that are not capitalized are
            articles (except as the first word), coordinating
            conjunctions (for example, and, but, and or), prepositions
            (except as the first or last word), and the to in an
            infinitive. )
          - For now, only the branding/primary feature is important to
            get right. Long term, all plugins and features should use
            the correct "Provider Name", same as that branding
            plugin/feature, but we do not encourage a lot of last minute
            touching of plugins just to fix the provider name. It can be
            phased in when other changes are made to those plugins, if
            desired.

<!-- end list -->

  - Name that train

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Anthony volunteered to talk to Bjorn, perhaps turn the proposed
        "contest" into a poster session

<!-- end list -->

  -   - No Poster session. Concluded that we'd make alphabetical list of
        remaining moons. ACTION: make such a list to see if any should
        be ruled out (such as Io).

<!-- end list -->

  -   - The question was raised of how future trains interacted with e4.
        By show of hands, no other project was currently planning an e4
        specific release. So will be an issue at some point in future,
        but not likely to be in 2010.

<!-- end list -->

  - Markus
    [suggested](http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg01562.html)
    we discuss what platforms to support in EPP packages.

<!-- end list -->

  -   - PC concluded it was desirable to add Windows 64 bit, but Markus
        could not commit. Issues are that people need to be lined up
        that have the machines and time to test. Also, not all packages
        can be available on all platforms (e.g. CDT).

<!-- end list -->

  - Discuss alternatives to uber-site: still desired? feasible?
    alternatives for backup plan? tighter integration with epp packages?

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Did not have time to discuss in detail

<!-- end list -->

  - Let's decide Galileo Service Releases - proposed:
      - 9/25/09 (last Friday of September)
      - 2/26/10 (last Friday of February)

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Approved these dates: need to announce

<!-- end list -->

  - While we are face-to-face, let's get started on next year's release
    by discussing the general process. Please come prepared to represent
    your PMC or strategic member on things they like about the
    simultaneous release process and things they do not like. \[For
    those who can not attend this face-to-face, you can send me a short
    list and I'll present them\].

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Did not have time to discuss in detail

<!-- end list -->

  - Next Planning Council Meeting: 4/1 (First Wednesday of every month)
  - Next Face-to-face: Eclipse World, October 2009? Eclipse Summit,
    October 2009?

<!-- end list -->

  - Related activities/meetings
      - StAC meeting to follow, Sunday 3-5 (all councils are invited ...
        and in fact considered members).
      - Architecture Council after that, 5-6

## Reference Links

[Galileo Simultaneous Release](Galileo_Simultaneous_Release "wikilink")

[Planning Council
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)