## Logistics

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council Conference Call - EclispeCon F2F**                                                                                                                                 |
| Date & Time:   | Sunday, March 21, 2010, at [UTC 2100 / 2:00 PM local time (Pacific, this time)](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2010&month=03&day=21&hour=21&min=0&sec=0)   |
| Location:      | Bayshore room of the Hyatt Santa Clara.                                                                                                                                               |
| Dial-in:       | ~~For the call-in numbers, see the "Project Review" number on [Foundation Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.~~ No dial-in for this meeting. |

## Attendees

<table style="width:30%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 30%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oliver Cole</p></td>
<td><p>Tptp (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><del>Doug Gaff</del> ???</p></td>
<td><p>Dsdp (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Anthony Hunter</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oisin Hurley</p></td>
<td><p>Stp (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Thomas Watson</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC) (appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>Strategic Reps</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Stefan Daume</p></td>
<td><p>Cloudsmith Inc.(Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Kaloyan Raev</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Christian Kurzke</p></td>
<td><p>Motorola (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>Appointed</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p><br />
<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above attendance record.</small><br />
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small><br />
<small>N = No, did not</small><br />
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Inactive

<table style="width:30%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 30%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p> ?</p></td>
<td><p>Nokia (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p> ?</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p> ?</p></td>
<td><p>brox IT-Solutions GmbH (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p><br />
<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic">Strategic Members</a> we have not heard from in a year or so, and have been unable to convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>



## Helios

  - We require a repository, and we require an optimized repository, but
    turns out "what is a repository" is not agreed to by everyone. See
    and its predecessor .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Do we (Planning Council) agree on what a repository is?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Is it fair to dictate/clarify that definition (now), for projects
    that want to participate in Simultaneous Release?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    has anyone investigated using unpack from a (pre-release) Java 7?
    Anyone willing to? See

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Should we make (all) jars files available from common repository?
    (we currently remove some, when they have a pack.gz file, to save
    space).

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        From meeting, it was agreed this was reasonable to expect both
        original jars and pack.gz files, with P2 compliant metadata,
        since that has been the expectation all along. While changes
        might be possible in the future (e.g. next year) its something
        that has to be worked through, and wide spread agreement
        achieved.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        To correct a statement I made at the meeting, there actually is
        a specification: [Network Transfer Format
        JSR 200](http://jcp.org/aboutJava/communityprocess/review/jsr200/index.html)
        though that wouldn't change to overall issue, it at least can
        shed some light.

### Cross-Project Teams

#### Aggregation

[Planning Council/Cross Project
Teams/Aggregation](Cross_Project_Teams/Aggregation.md)

A new Aggregator is (nearly) ready for testing. I hope to run the new
one in parallel with old one. Currently, I'd be reluctant to change the
"official" one, this late in the cycle, unless there's really good,
important reasons to.

#### Tracking progress and compliance

  -
    [Planning Council/Cross Project
    Teams/Tracking](Cross_Project_Teams/Tracking.md)

How is your tracking going?

PMC Representatives: please be prepared to give brief (verbal) summary
of the state of your projects. (such as, how many participating, anyone
"late" on required or optional things like Accessibility checklists,
which were due by end of M6?)

What should "summaries" show?

### Process and seed list for Helios +1

See Last year's bug

Rules and procedure for Helios +1 :

Must be Greater than "H" (not too much greater, to leave room for later
alphabetized names) but no strict rule that is has to be literally "I"
or "J".

Preference given to names that fit the "moon", "gods", or "scientists"
themes we've had so far but no strict rule.

We will have cross-project bugzilla open to solicit names until April 8.
Then a series of doodle polls to pick top choice. We will have multiple
doodle polls, vote until majority achieved (anyone know of a voting site
that allows first, second, third choice? with "built in" runoff votes?)

TODO: open bug this evening, so can be discussed at EclipseCon

Planning council will remove any they deem "unsuitable" (as always).

Final choice made by May 7 (Helios M7).

Planning Council seed list:

  - ~~Janus~~
  - ~~Iccuris~~
  - Issac
  - Ion
  - Isis
  - Iris

### Anything to discuss for next year's release?

Things to add/change/remove?

How to handle "3.7 stream" vs. "e4 stream"?

#### IDE and Runtime-only items

  -
    IDE Only items "installed" in EPP packages

<!-- end list -->

  -
    need to figure out better story for pre-packaged runtimes

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Tom and Chris agreed to handle. (will come up with some
    instructions/examples).

## ToDo Items

  - create (and update) [helios container
    plan](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/project-plan.php?projectid=helios)
    (Wayne (re) volunteered)

<!-- end list -->

  - provide concrete instructions for (new) license-consistency
    requirement ... before M6? (John Arthorne).

## Other business

  - Reminder: face-face EclipseCon meeting 2:00 to 3:00 (local time) on
    the Sunday before EclispeCon (3/21) in the Bayshore room of the
    Hyatt Santa Clara.
  - Followed by "joint meeting" with other councils.

## Next Meeting

  -
    [April 7, Wednesday](April_07_2010.md),
    Noon Eastern Time.

## Reference

[Helios Simultaneous Release](Helios_Simultaneous_Release "wikilink")

[Planning Council
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

[Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink") and
[Simultaneous Release
Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")