## Introduction and Introductions

This is our annual, traditional EclipseCon Face-Face Meetings, Sunday,
March 20, At Hyatt, Napa Room.

  -

      -
        3-4 (Pacific Time) PC face-to-face meeting, followed by
        4-5 (Pacific Time) Joint Councils Meeting (See [Donald's note to
        list](http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg01858.html)).

## Logistics

|                          |                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title:           | **Planning Council EclipseCon face-to-face meeting**                                                                                                                        |
| Date & Time:             | Wednesday, March 20, 2011, at [3:00 PMC Pacific time. Napa Room](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2011&month=03&day=20&hour=19&min=0&sec=0&p1=179) |
| ~~Dial-in:~~ No dial in. | ~~For the call-in numbers, see the "Project Review" number on [Foundation Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.~~                    |

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>?</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oliver Cole</p></td>
<td><p>Tptp (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Mik Kersten</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>?</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>?</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Anthony Hunter</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Adrian Mos</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>?</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>?</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Thomas Watson</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>?</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC) (appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>?</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Stefan Daume</p></td>
<td><p>Cloudsmith Inc.(Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>?</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Kaloyan Raev</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Pascal Rapicault</p></td>
<td><p>Sonatype (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Christian Kurzke</p></td>
<td><p>Motorola (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>?</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Achim Loerke</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Appointed</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>Nokia (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>brox IT-Solutions GmbH (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
we have not heard from in a year or so, and have been unable to convince
to participate. Those members can become active again at any time.
Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Â ?

## Indigo Status

  - M6a repo and packages? See  and

## Name Indigo +1

  - Name that release; Indigo+1. And [the winner
    is](http://www.eclipse.org/indigo/planning/poll2012name.php) ...
    *Juno. Pending EMO Review.*

We'll examine process, votes, be sure there is a clear winner, and that
the winner is not objectionable in some way we didn't think of before.
Remember, once we decide the name, it will still have to be "vetted" by
Ian/Mike/Janet to make sure there would be no trademark infringement,
etc. Is is very unlikely ("no chance") this vetting will be done
before/during EclipseCon ... so we can "announce" our choice, but with
the caveat "pending final EMO reviews".

(Greatest thanks, Pascal\!)

## CVS and GIT

  - Status, plans, and urgency of moving from CVS to GIT. Why it is
    required, again? (Denis, Wayne?)

*Wayne presented the current plan. After Indigo, begin to more actively
move projects to GIT. Assuming, EGit 1.0, released with Indigo, will be
"good enough" to support Eclipse Committers. By Fall 2012 (after Juno)
"turn off" CVS. Primary reason is that CVS is no longer actively
supported; no new releases planned. That is partially because it is so
stable, but it also means if an important bug or security vulnerability
was desired to be fixed, we'd be "on our own" ... have to patch and
rebuild ourselves. \[Wayne says Denis can point us at some bugs of
concern\]. Less tangible reasons involve simply moving to what people
want, what's modern, easier to use, especially for "new comers". While
there's some concern about having just one "solution" that everyone has
to use, there's some benefit to using just one repo at Eclipse, since
then if users learn how to use one project at Eclipse, provide patch,
etc., then they could more easily do so for another project, if same
repo used by the projects. \[There is so proposal to "turn off" SVN,
but, not widely used.\] It was also mentioned that one goal is to "save
IT effort" but a) not clear how much effort CVS takes, and b) its not
clear CVS can literally be turned off, or even made "read only" (since
many projects need ability to do patch builds, etc., on old system with
old code). It is a different impact if literally turned off, done away
with, since then some long established projects would have to figure out
how to replicate old builds with new repository. Unclear how much effort
that would take. (Or, an alternative is that companies/committers that
need to do a patch build, can simply do on their own systems,
duplicating the cvs repos, etc., but that has obvious disadvantages
too.)*

*Some issues with GIT were briefly mentioned: a) it is still not clear
what the right granularity is for a repo (that is, no one even knows
what to recommend as a best practice). b) some delay in using Gerrit at
Eclipse, c) some confusion about if contributors can supply a patch to
bugzilla, or simply supply a reference link to a another repo that has
the updated code committed to it (Wayne said he thought he'd sent a not
clarifying that, perhaps only to Architecture list?)*

*Would moving to GIT after Indigo mean some projects are doing Indigo
maintenance from CVS? And Juno from GIT? Or, would Indigo maintenance be
moved to GIT as well? If CVS and GIT, it would be lots more work for
committers to keep streams in sync ... is there anything that could be
done to improve this?*

## Misc. References

  - Any discussion of these documents ...

:\*\[<http://www.eclipse.org/org/councils/roadmap_v6_0/>| V6 of the
Eclipse Road Map\] ... mostly here for reference. Any feedback should
have already been given ... board review is next day.

:\*\[<http://wiki.eclipse.org/RequirementsCouncilThemesAndPriorities>|
Themes and Priorities\]. (Again, here for reference, may be discussed at
joint meeting.)

*These specific documents were not discussed, but the general issue of
"inadequate plans" was mentioned ... that is, some projects have no
plans, essentially ... so some attention, changes or improvement in
process may be needed in future. It was mentioned (in following, joint
meeting, that plans would always be required, that they were an
essential part of being "open", and "transparent". Also from joint
meeting, if bylaws changed as expected, and no longer a req. council,
then in addition to "plans" projects may be expected to name their own
themes and priorities.*

## Eclipse 4.2 vs. 3.8

Next year, what's primary, what's secondary? Do we buy-in to the
[Eclipse Project's (implied)
proposal](http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg05597.html)?

How important is it to your project or to your strategic member company,
that you represent, to use Eclipse 3.8 or Eclipse 4.2 as primary? Think
of it on a 10 point scale (for discussion): 1 is very important to stay
on 3.8 as primary, 5 is don't care, happy to go along with what others
want/need, and 10 is very important to use 4.2 as the primary?

*There was a general sense that if 4.x was ever going to be "real", we
needed to make it primary. One project (besides Platform) was looking
forward to it, and has (loose, informal) plans to exploit it, once
primary. One member expressed concerned that since they depend on
bundles/tools/add-ins that are not part of Eclipse (and not part of
their company) that they have no control over ... so they might need to
be on 3.x for that reason, and they wondered if we could have "both
streams be primary". This wasn't thought to be realistic, since means
"double the work" for everyone (to test both, if nothing else) but it
was acknowledged that 3.x would remain to be very important. This called
for a definition of "primary": a) EPP packages are built with it; b)
projects build and test with it. It was mentioned that 4.x may not be
getting much use by general population of Eclipse IDE users since most
simply download EPP Packages.*

*While no final decision was made, my impression (or proposal) is that
the plan should be to have 4.x be primary, and go down that path for
Juno, unless or until some substantial reason is found not to. This
would still allow 3.x to get as much or as little attention as desired,
but we would not build EPP packages with it. It was asked,
hypothetically, why couldn't we have both streams for EPP packages ...
but, general fear was this would be confusing to community/users and
more work for committers to "fully" support both, etc.).*

*It was also asked, "when would compatibility layer be removed, or no
longer supported", and the answer was "never, it will always be there,
always supported". That is, there is no expectation that Projects move
to "native" 4.x APIs.*

*It was mentioned, that some thought the "message" needs work ... that
the details in [cross project
note](http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg05597.html)
sounded "scary"?*

## Long Term Planning discussion

*Note to self ... next year allow for two hour meeting :). We did not
have time to chat about any of these longer term issues ... and will
address them at our regular monthly meetings*.

EclipseCon face-to-face is good time to discuss high level or long term
issues. The following items are potential items to discuss ... please
add any of your own. They can range from a thought or question, to a
specific proposal. The purpose of this part of the meeting is not
necessarily to decide or resolve any specific issues (there likely would
not be time) but to make sure we are all, as a council, in agreement on
our general course, what are most important issues to address, etc.

  - Review our
    [Mission](Planning_Council#Planning_Council_Mission "wikilink") and
    recent
    [retrospectives](Helios_retrospective.md).
    In addition to the formal, documented mission, several other
    motivations tend to influence our efforts:

:\* improve quality and consistency of Eclipse as a whole,

:\* make things as easy as possible for committers (while meeting other
goals),

:\* improve "value" of Eclipse, by improving what adopters can adopt and
providing what strategic members need.

:\* Others ...?

  - How are we doing? Beside 'being on time' are we achieving the right
    quality? By helping projects focus on "minimum set" of items that
    are important for Eclipse as a whole?

<!-- end list -->

  - Should we have "must do" items at all? Or, are they just
    recommendations?

<!-- end list -->

  - Are the requirements about right? Too many? Too few?

<!-- end list -->

  - Should we have requirement related to bug fix rate? Backlog
    reduction? unit test coverage?

<!-- end list -->

  - How's the aggregation process? Would it be fair to ask for zipped p2
    repositories for aggregation input?

<!-- end list -->

  - Is the release tracking checklist on Portal worthwhile? Should we do
    away with it? Should we make it better? (Such as, there could be
    more "auto fill-in" ... such as from other portal data, more
    "testing" results would provide the main data for forms while
    projects would provide the documentation for deviations or
    exceptions).

<!-- end list -->

  - Who is the audience(s)? (Projects, PMCs, Planning Council,
    Adopters).

<!-- end list -->

  - Is yearly release (with two service releases) the right interval?
    Should maintenance be quarterly? Should releases be every other
    year? Or, perhaps, every other year be a LTS releases with "off"
    year having less maintenance emphasis?

<!-- end list -->

  - Is there too much "pressure" or emphasis that everyone should be
    part of Simultaneous Release? Or, should it be one of our goals,
    that every project should be part of the Simultaneous Release? How
    would we describe or define who should, or who shouldn't?

<!-- end list -->

  - Terminology improvements:

:\* "Tracker" --\> "Checklist"?

:\* "Exceptions" --\> "Deviations"?

## Next Meeting

  - April 6, 2011 (our regular "first Wednesday" meeting, at Noon
    Eastern).

## Reference

  -
    [Indigo
    Requirements](http://www.eclipse.org/indigo/planning/EclipseSimultaneousRelease.php)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Indigo Wiki page](Indigo "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Helios
    retrospective](Helios_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Indigo Simultaneous
    Release](Indigo/Simultaneous_Release_Plan "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")