## Logistics

|                           |                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title:            | **Planning Council Conference Call**                                                                                                                    |
| Date & Time:              | Wednesday, March 25, 2012, at [1400 Eastern](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2012&month=03&day=25&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=179) |
| Face-to-Face. No Dial-in. | Room: Fairfax B. Second floor of Hyatt.                                                                                                                 |

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Mik Kersten (Benjamin?)</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>D</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Jesse McConnell</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC) (appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Stefan Daume</p></td>
<td><p>Cloudsmith Inc.(Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Kaloyan Raev</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Igor Fedorenko</p></td>
<td><p>Sonatype (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Christian Kurzke</p></td>
<td><p>Motorola (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Achim Loerke</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>TPTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Any?

## Juno

  - How did we do for M6?

### Issues or Exceptions

#### Any issues? Everyone in? Any exceptions known?

  -
    Exceptions for projects not in M4, that still will to join Juno:
      -
        Virgo approved during 1/05 meeting (from rt PMC list, will be in
        M6)
        BPEL approved on mailing list (as late for M4, but in M5)
        Code Recommenders approved on mailing list (as late for M4, but
        in M5).
        Koneki project approved on mailing list (as late for M5, but
        joining in M6).
        Others?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Any discussion of [Papyrus and XWT
    situation](http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg07494.html)?

### Plans

  - anything to look at? In particular, plans specifying "planned
    support for 3.8 workbench"?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *must be a "report" by now?* (Wayne?)

## Kepler

  - Issues and direction:

## Long Term Planning discussion

  - Interesting to read minutes from last [year's
    meeting.](March_20_2011.md) How far have we
    come?

EclipseCon face-to-face is good time to discuss high level or long term
issues. The following items are potential items to discuss ... please
add any of your own. They can range from a thought or question, to a
specific proposal. The purpose of this part of the meeting is not
necessarily to decide or resolve any specific issues (there likely would
not be time) but to make sure we are all, as a council, in agreement on
our general course, what are most important issues to address, etc.

  - Review our
    [Mission](Planning_Council#Planning_Council_Mission "wikilink") and
    recent
    [retrospectives](Indigo_retrospective.md).
    In addition to the formal, documented mission, several other
    motivations tend to influence our efforts:

:\* improve quality and consistency of Eclipse as a whole,

:\* make things as easy as possible for committers (while meeting other
goals),

:\* improve "value" of Eclipse, by improving what adopters can adopt and
providing what strategic members need.

:\* Others ...?

  - How are we doing? Beside 'being on time' are we achieving the right
    quality? By helping projects focus on "minimum set" of items that
    are important for Eclipse as a whole?

<!-- end list -->

  - Should we have "must do" items at all? Or, are they just
    recommendations?

<!-- end list -->

  - Are the requirements about right? Too many? Too few?

<!-- end list -->

  - Should we have requirement related to bug fix rate? Backlog
    reduction? unit test coverage?

<!-- end list -->

  - How's the aggregation process? Would it be fair to ask for zipped p2
    repositories for aggregation input?

<!-- end list -->

  - Is the release tracking checklist on Portal worthwhile?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        How's the "new portal" coming? (Wayne)

<!-- end list -->

  - Who is the audience(s)? (Projects, PMCs, Planning Council,
    Adopters).

<!-- end list -->

  - Is yearly release (with two service releases) the right interval?
    Should maintenance be quarterly? Should releases be every other
    year? Or, perhaps, every other year be a LTS releases with "off"
    year having less maintenance emphasis?

<!-- end list -->

  - Is there too much "pressure" or emphasis that everyone should be
    part of Simultaneous Release? Or, should it be one of our goals,
    that every project should be part of the Simultaneous Release? How
    would we describe or define who should, or who shouldn't?

<!-- end list -->

  - What is relationship of Planning Council/Yearly Release and LTS?
    Conceptually? Governance? Bylaws?

## Other Business

  - ?

## Next Meeting

  - April 4, 2012 (our regular "first Wednesday" meeting, at Noon
    Eastern).

## Reference

  -
    [Juno Wiki page](Juno "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Indigo
    retrospective](Indigo_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")