## Logistics

EclipseCon Face2Face Sunday March 16th, 2-4pm, Bayside

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>D: John Arthorne</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Steffen Pingel</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y (Ian and Tom Watson)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Markus Tiede</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Rajeev Dayal</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Reviewed important dates

  - Reminder: [deadlines and
    dates](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg10265.html)
    for Luna CQs, Reviews, etc.

## Kepler / Luna issue

  - Reviewed important p2 bug
      - This is a serious problem for Luna, Tycho creates a new EXE each
        time, and EPP Uses tycho.
      - Why is this not a problem for the platform build? (could be the
        way EPP Does branding)
      - We don't really have a solution here. It's not clear this has
        ever worked, but maybe we have just been lucky. This doesn't
        appear to be a problem for SR2, having said that, some people
        (Namely David) have seen it. Not much we can do now for Kepler
        anyways.

## Maven Discussion

  - Should we / can we push all our stuff to maven
  - How do we push dependencies
  - Can we use stuff from Maven, why not? (Legally)
      - We should be doing this. If someone really wants to push on
        this, get in touch with Wayne and start putting together a
        proposal

## Luna Planning

  - Nothing really to discuss

## Progress on Action Items

  - Improved "aggregator examples/doc". (dw -- no progress).
  - Orbit plan
      - Wayne says that Maven is the answer going forward, no real
        update at this time.

## Rolling Release

  - Should we have several streams
  - Should we remove the notion of 'service releases'?
      - We call Sept and Feb releases SR releases. But in reality they
        are Eclipse Platform SR releases, with some other components
        that may be or may not be more stable than the previous version.
      - Marcel (Actually, this was mentioned in the AC meeting, but I'll
        add it here) wanted to put Code Recommenders 2.0 in SR2 but
        didn't because he wasn't really allowed. However, others have
        done this type of thing. Are we fooling ourselves? Are we
        fooling our users? Can we have 3 releases points a year and the
        projects can contribute whatever they want (as long as the
        aggregator doesn't object)? Again, if anyone really wants to do
        this, we need to start with a concrete proposal.

<!-- end list -->

  - Should we stop the release and go with 'Mars forever'\!
      - If we did this, what would we call it?
      - Does it still make sense to have a single name for the Year
        (Mars, Mars 1 and Mars 2)
      - John mentioned that Ubuntu has a good version number XX.MM, so
        for us that would be Eclipse 14.6 (June 2014), Eclipse 14.9
        (Sept 2014), Eclipse 15.2
      - Remember these are the 'Marketing Versions' not the semantic
        versions, or bundle versions. These say nothing about
        compatibility
  - What about two streams, one for unstable and one for stable
      - Cedric mentioned the challenges with trying to get new stuff in
        users hands.

<!-- end list -->

  - Orion wants to move to release every two weeks
      - Will this be a problem? Do we need to rethink the concept of a
        'release'.
      - Other (non release train projects, Vert.x for example) want to
        do this too.

## Reference

  -
    2013 EclipseCon face-to-face follow-through action items. For
    original meeting notes, see
    [March_24_2013](Planning_Council/March_24_2013.md)
    and for discussion leading to action items, see
    [April_10_2013](Planning_Council/April_10_2013.md).
    For last status update, see
    [May_8_2013](Planning_Council/May_8_2013.md).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Luna Wiki page](Luna "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Kepler Wiki page](Kepler "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Kepler
    retrospective](Kepler_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")