## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Meeting</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Sunday, March 24, 2013, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2013&amp;month=03&amp;day=24&amp;hour=14&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1400 Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Face-to-Face. No Dial-in.</p></td>
<td><p>Room: South End, on the Plaza Level (top floor) of the World Trade Center.<br />
Note: MeetGreen will be at the venue setting up registration in case you need anything.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>No</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Yes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Steffen Pingel</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>No (not attending EclipseCon and Mik is not available on Sunday)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>No (not attending EclipseCon)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Yes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>No (flight schedule)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>No</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Yes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC) (appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>No.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Yes</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>No</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Yes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Kaloyan Raev</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>No (not attending EclipseCon)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Yes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Achim Loerke (Markus Tiede)</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Yes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Shawn Pearce</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Yes</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Minutes

### Policy on new releases joining SR

  - We agreed on David's proposed policy from previous call: "The new
    release must be in RC1 builds for the SR, must have released one
    month prior to that RC1, and must be willing/able to test and
    provide a quick maintenance release if last minute problems found."

### Build reproducibility

We had a lengthy discussion about the issue of reproducibility of the
aggregation build. Ideally aggregator should be idempotent: multiple
runs of the aggregator on the same aggregation input files should
produce the same result. In practice, this does not work. One problem is
that people contribute a composite repository URL, and then just update
the children any time they want without updating their contribution
file. There are a number of drawbacks to this:

  - It is very difficult to do a careful respin of only one component to
    address a critical bug, such as the case with EGit in Juno SR2. You
    can't be certain that nothing else will creep in.
  - You can't diff two states of the aggregator and see exactly what
    projects have changed.
  - After the release is over it can never be reproduced again
  - Projects end up accidentally contributing the wrong thing to the
    aggregator

There was general agreement that we should strive to make the aggregator
idempotent. One step in this direction is not allowing composite
repositories to be used as input. There is a perception that b3 files
are brittle and projects are afraid of breaking things, it is very hard
to know if you made your changes correctly. If there was a simple way to
update the repository for each aggregation build there would be less
incentive to "cheat" with composite repositories.

A common convention on p2 repository addresses could help. Some parts of
the manual updating could be automated if all projects had a normalized
repository path like <projectName>/milestones/kepler/m5 for example.

Another possible solution is that the aggregation mirror \*all\* the
data as a first step. Then that mirroring could be turned off for
emergency rebuilds. This also handles the fact that projects might not
have durable p2 repositories and after the release may delete that
repository and make their aggregator input invalid. Or we just capture
and save the metadata such as bundle version numbers and we can validate
that nothing has changed except what we expect to change. This could
also be used as a way to control/enforce that projects are providing
consistent/durable inputs.

### Release train rules

There is a general perception that there are "too many rules" for
joining the release train. Some projects are declining participation
because they see it as unnecessary process overhead. In reality the
non-negotiable rules are few, and there is a long list of "should do"
items that make the overall rules document look daunting. The suggestion
was made to split this into two distinct documents such as "release
train rules", and "release train guidelines". We should also strive to
make the rules less wordy. Keep the rules very short, with links as
appropriate to other documents for more details. Someone should be able
to sit down and read through all the rules without being overwhelmed.

### Release train rhythm

We had a very general discussion about the current "one plus two" rhythm
of the release train. The original intent is that there was one annual
release with new features, and two service releases with only bug fixes.
This evolved over time and now some projects just treat it as three
release windows into which they can put whatever new release they want.
The problem is that having new features only once a year isn't fast
enough for some communities. It is fine for stable projects but not for
new projects or projects working in areas with rapid innovation.

The idea was floated of having more than three release windows, and it
would be up to individual projects whether they take advantage of that
or just continue with three per year. For example moving to quarterly
releases would not be a big shift. The problem is that the current
pattern is very engrained and our consumer community makes expectations
of release periods far in advance. If we consider changing this we would
need to give a lot of advance notice.

Another idea is that we already have a mechanism for doing releases
every six weeks: the milestones. We could promote the milestones as the
path for getting cutting edge new functionality on a faster rhythm. We
could include the aggregate milestone repository URL starting with M1 so
users can upgrade from milestone to milestone very easily. This is
similar to what browsers do where they use the "beta channel" as the
forum to get early testing and give early access to new function more
quickly for those willing to live with a bit more instability. While
this approach gives a channel to consume projects that release more
frequently, the trade-off is that it also includes a lot of pre-release
software that is not well validated. What people want is all the latest
releases on a more frequent schedule... every month give me the latest
version available of each project. In many cases it will be the same as
last month but this is fine.

### The release train and RT

We had a long general discussion about EclipseRT and its relationship to
the release train. It is not well served by the current release train.
They often release on a more frequent schedule so three releases a year
isn't enough. They don't necessarily care about the aggregate repository
because their users install their software in other ways (except for
provisioning a target platform in their IDE). Many of the release train
guidelines are not applicable to some of these projects (accessibility,
translation, etc). They often have very little need to integrate with
other Eclipse projects so releasing at the same time isn't necessarily
as important. Maybe this is fine and the answer is that they just don't
participate. This does mean they lose out on the marketing opportunity
and focus that comes with being in the June release.

Could there be a completely separate EclipseRT release train. What would
that look like? More frequent schedule, perhaps coordinated push of
artifacts to maven central rather than p2.

### Orbit

There was some discussion of the future of Orbit. We all agreed Wayne
should take it over, but then Wayne arrived to the meeting and that plan
was scrapped. The "bundle recipes" approach sounds promising. We could
store only our custom metadata (Manifest.mf, etc) in the Orbit git
repository. We would also need a persistent store of the original
upstream binaries in case those upstream projects disappear (especially
for LTS). However there would be no need for these upstream binaries to
be in any version control system.

## Next Meeting

  - April 3, 2013, "First Wednesday" Meeting

## Reference

  -
    [Kepler Wiki page](Kepler "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Juno Wiki page](Juno "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Indigo
    retrospective](Indigo_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")