## Logistics

|                |                                                                                                                                                         |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council Conference Call**                                                                                                                    |
| Date & Time:   | Wednesday, March 07, 2012, at [1200 Eastern](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2012&month=03&day=07&hour=12&min=0&sec=0&p1=179) |
| Dial-in:       | For the call-in numbers, see the "Project Review" number on [Foundation Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.    |

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Mik Kersten</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Jesse McConnell</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC) (appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Stefan Daume</p></td>
<td><p>Cloudsmith Inc.(Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Kaloyan Raev</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Igor Fedorenko</p></td>
<td><p>Sonatype (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Christian Kurzke</p></td>
<td><p>Motorola (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Achim Loerke</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>TPTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Welcome Igor Fedorenko as new Sonatype Strategic Developer
    Representative.
  - Any others?

## Indigo SR2

  - Success? Feedback?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *None discussed (but, send note to mailing list, etc., if anything
    occurs to you later*.

<!-- end list -->

  - Issue to discuss and decide if we need a plan of action: p2 content
    metadata at SR2 is 3 times what it is at SR0.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Should our common "release repo" contain only the latest code?
        And "move" older stuff to different site? The different site
        would be named something like .../releases/juno/complete or or
        something, and be simply a different composite (no duplication
        of actual artifacts). This site would not be "built in" to any
        update repo lists, but could be used by builds or others that
        needed "the old stuff". I think if someone updated, and then
        wanted to revert or rollback the change, they might also have to
        manually add the ".../releases/juno/complete" URL to their list
        of sites (assuming p2 GC had cleaned off the old stuff. Please
        read the [msg chain on p2-dev
        list](http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/p2-dev/msg04680.html).
        There is a trade off of function and performance and want to be
        sure everyone is aware of it and if anyone has any opinions on
        if we currently have the right choice.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Another solution might be to aggregate new stuff, with old,
        which would have added advantage of making sure all was
        compatible ... but, a) not sure it would be much smaller and b)
        requires all projects to do an "expert job" of versioning.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *No strong view to change, so normally status quo would rule.
        But, we did discuss it is a little hard for us to know magnitude
        of problem, and if it'd be worth trading off the current
        function, so, a bug might be worth opening, and see if some
        "world wide" data was worth collecting. To us, at meeting,
        there's a big difference if its 90 seconds for most people and
        the would improve to 30 seconds. Versus 15 minutes for most of
        world, thus reducing to 5 minutes. Concern was also expressed
        that it may be an inherent problem/limitation with p2 and this
        "fix" would be sort of "temporary" ... that if future repos grew
        to three times current size, we'd be in the same "poor
        performance" category, unless p2 was improved or some other
        solution found.*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *ACTION: dw to open cross-project bug to discuss further and
        provide minor "test case". May clear with webmasters first,
        since would hate for people to start doing "hundreds of tests"
        swamping the server even further ... maybe they know of a few
        key locations they could get to cooperate in a test?*

<!-- end list -->

  - No bug yet, but I've gotten some email one might be open to "remove
    categories" from Indigo SR0 and SR1 repositories, to "complete" the
    fix for the problem caused by linuxtools changing feature IDs in SR2
    (See ). As is, 6 features show up in "Linux tools" category, but 3
    are for SR1 and 3 are for SR2 and they can not be all installed (all
    at once, that is, as most users would "pick them all" if they wanted
    Linux tools). While not exactly a blocking bug ... is it something
    that will last for years to come ... not to mention, I wonder if we
    should always only have one categorization for common repo?
    (discussed some in .

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Any issues/thoughts on this? Allowable? Desirable? Not?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Will leave as "for awareness" until/unless bug open. John did
        say, "he didn't know about magnitude of the bug, but that he
        thought is could be done safely, since its just used in UI" ...
        not a fundamental IU used in builds or installs, or anything. I
        guess anyone who had made "internal mirrors" might need to
        redo?*

## Juno

Ready for M6?

  - Sounds like fair progress towards moving to "non greedy" publishers.

### Issues or Exceptions

#### Any issues? Everyone in? Any exceptions known?

  -
    Exceptions for projects not in M4, that still will to join Juno:
      -
        Virgo approved during 1/05 meeting (from rt PMC list, will be in
        M6)
        BPEL approved on mailing list (as late for M4, but in M5)
        Code Recommenders approved on mailing list (as late for M4, but
        in M5).
        Koneki project approved on mailing list (as late for M5, but
        joining in M6).
        Others?

#### Anyone "dropping out" that should be removed from aggregation build?

  -

      -
        removed following b3aggrcon files, for M6:

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        dsdp-mjt
        emf-teneo
        emf-mint
        m2t-jet
        tools-sequoyah
        stp

#### What to do about Papyrus (and non released XWT dependency)

  -
    Both in general (), and specific for this case.
    In general, can I say the Planning Council agrees with my summary
    conclusion in the ?
      -
        *Consensus was "yes"*
    Specifically, does the Planning Council agree this means Papyrus can
    not be in Sim Release? In fact, could not release at all, until this
    XWT issue is resolved.
      -
        They perhaps could use an "old" version of XWT? But, my guess is
        that very old release (which happened sort of erroneously) does
        not have about.html files, etc.
        XWT could graduate/move to its own project and release from
        there ... but not much time left, and seems unlikely?
        They could also release/join during SR1, etc., if things work
        out by then.
        Keep in mind, one bad aspect of this is that Papyrus and some
        "unreleased" XWT bundles were in Indigo. We should have "caught
        the error" back then.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Agreement they can't release (much less be apart of train) with
    unreleased dependencies. Wayne said there could maybe be exceptions,
    but it would have to be a very special case, under just the right
    conditions. Also, it was said, that given that "it was done wrong
    last year" speaks to the magnitude of their problem ... that is,
    that it is still not fixed/released by now, is even more reason to
    not allow it to happen again.*

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *ACTION: dw to send note to papyrus and modeling pmc saying "no",
    and remove them from aggregation build, unless they know something
    we don't (e.g. I'm pretty sure XWT is central to their function, but
    for all I know maybe they could just leave it out, and haven't said
    so yet.*

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Does anyone suspect any other, similar cases?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *None mentioned.*

### Plans

  - anything to look at? In particular, plans specifying "planned
    support for 3.8 workbench"?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *no consolidated report yet*

<!-- end list -->

  - Is there a controversy brewing over what is released in EPP and how
    to decide? See [chain of msgs on cbi-dev
    list](http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cbi-dev/msg00133.html).

::\* The proposal (to summarize, assuming no communication problems) was
for the "bits" in Eclipse Classic, and the Juno repository to be
provided by the Eclipse releng team.

  -

      -
        But, that the bits used in EPP (for the platform/SDK bundles)
        come from the CBI builds, and the rest come from common
        repository.
          - Issue one: this means there would be two versions of
            platform bundles "in the wild" for the Juno release.
        <!-- end list -->
          -
            Either with same version and qualifiers, but (probably
            slightly different content), or different qualifiers but
            maybe same content ... either case leading to chaos (IMHO).
            I think "updates" and "what would adopter's customer's end
            up with" are huge problems for Eclipse, in these cases.
        <!-- end list -->
          - Issue two, while is is true, Eclipse is open source, and
            "people can do with it what they want", I think it is
            entirely up to the EPP project what they do and how they do
            it (not "CBI") and such a large technical/process change
            should get plenty of discussion with EPP Project (and,
            probably their PMC ... is this something they think is a
            good idea?)
          - Issue three, it seems all this is happening "last minute"
            instead of the proven "Eclipse way" of producing milestones,
            making steady, incremental progress towards a release.
          - Issue four, would projects still want to be in EPP, if they
            knew bits would be different than if they "built their own"?
          - Issue five, I think the Planning Council is in charge of
            "the release plan" (since, it effects all top-level projects
            and PMCs and Strategic Members) so I think we are obligated
            to make a statement on this issue.

::\* If not obvious, I think we all want to be supportive of CBI and the
LTS efforts, but ... even if bundles are planned/considered to be
identical, then why have two versions of them? Part of the answer is to
make very rapid progress in CBI and LTS. Again ... I think we all
support that rapid progress, but I'd prefer a plan that had same bits,
all around. Perhaps SR1?

::\* Any thoughts? Suggestions for what our Planning Council statement
should be? Can we make a concrete statement or recommendation?

  -

      -
        *Thanks to Andrew Ross for joining the call as a"special guest"
        to answer questions and hear concerns and learn more about
        bundles and our normal way of ordinating a release.*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Agreement that having "two versions" of bundles for one release
        is not tenable (for maintenance, predictable builds, updates,
        etc.) and would tarnish Eclipse's reputation for producing
        reliable, predictable releases. In some ways, it was speculated,
        that maybe the proposal made on cbi-dev list was just a case of
        partial mis-communication or terminology issues of not
        understanding the nuances of repositories, installs, updates,
        adopter scenarios, as well as the Eclipse dev. process and the
        project decision processes.*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Markus did say he might be willing to try using CBI output in
        some "test builds" for evaluation, if anyone thought that would
        be useful, but would not want to "release" those, if the
        platform released something different in the common repository.
        The EPP packages all come from the "common repository" which he
        does not want to change -- that is a key part of the
        "coordinated" and "update" story at Eclipse. And, it is up to
        each project to decide what goes into that common repository
        (that is, they decide what they contribute), since it is their
        responsibility. And, the Platform team has decided that they
        will contribute the bits from the PDE build for SR0 in June ...
        but they are willing to consider changing build systems after
        June, if CBI proves ready by then, or even after SR1 (for SR2
        release) if CBI not ready by September or not enough time to
        evaluate it by September.*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *The Planning Council agreed it would be a better plan to work
        "bottom up", to first prove the CBI can build the same thing as
        the platform build, and to then move the platform to a CBI
        build, and then end up with one set of bundles per release. It
        was felt that this might be feasible by SR1. Even that would be
        aggressive, and have some risk of "making it on time" (without
        sacrificing quality of the builds produced) but would feasibly
        allow at least some time to iterate and investigate and prove
        that it was adequate if not identical, before committing bundles
        "out in to the wild". Perhaps for Juno, "LTS" could "start with"
        SR2 ... though long term, Andrew told us, LTS members do want to
        be able to have their own builds/fixes/streams even immediately
        after SR0, if they so desired.*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *So, our recommendation is for CBI and LTS interests to come up
        with a plan to get the platform to move to CBI build by SR1 or
        SR2, and not plan to release two sets of bundles, as well as
        work with the EPP project to make sure the project (and the
        package maintainers and committers) agree with any proposals
        made to change the way things are done with EPP builds or
        packages.*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Planning Council members (or, members of their teams) can
        support the CBI and LTS efforts by at least opening bugs/feature
        requests on what's needed for CBI to "work for them" (in cbi
        bugzilla product), be explicit about acceptance criteria, as
        well as contribute man power to try the builds, test the
        results, etc., if not actually provide tools for CBI (the Common
        Build Infrastructure).*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *ACTION: dw will post "recommendation" to CBI dev list for
        proper visibility*.

### Other Business

  - I added some info about p2.mirrorsURL and p2.index to
    [Provide_optimized_p2_repository
    section](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements#Provide_optimized_p2_repository_.28partially_tested.29 "wikilink").
    I did this to help educate everyone, but, if anyone thinks I've
    added too much, please let me know.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *no complaints*

<!-- end list -->

  - Project Priorities: Please review and be prepared to discuss this
    proposed "policy document" about [project
    priorities](SimRel/Priorities "wikilink").

<!-- end list -->

  -
    One issue: should we mention LTS? Technically ... it is not in our
    mission or scope.
    Are we in agreement these can be published a "priorities from
    Planning Council's point of view" to begin "socializing" the idea?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    ''Good discussion. Suggestion to add point about security issues
    getting high priority (though, not typically not even part of
    "simultaneious release" priorities, per se). Agreement to still
    mention LTS priorities but to move it so it does not appear Planning
    Council is trying to govern LTS. ''

<!-- end list -->

  -
    ''ACTION: dw to send note to cross project list to begin socializing
    the ideas of documenting priorities ... but, emphasize, no change in
    procedures or requirements, just trying to better document what we
    do.

<!-- end list -->

  - Will Java pack200 issue  in equinox need action? Is a fix possible?
    It will not literally be a problem if everyone published both
    jar.pack.gz files and jars, but would be inefficient (ending up with
    "failures" with pack.gz files, and then downloading jars if using
    Java 7). Keep in mind, we have decided in the past that we should
    always publish both \*.jar and \*.jar.pack.gz files ... so, no
    change in policy for Sim. Release.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Jesse did not know, had not come up on rt-pmc call ... but, I'm
    sure we'll hear about it, if change to procedures about nested jars
    become recommended.*

<!-- end list -->

  - Anything else?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Nothing mentioned ... but ... did run out of time ... so feel free
    to mention issues on mailing list or bring to EclipseCon meeting in
    a few weeks.*

## Next Meeting

  - EclipseCon face-to-face meeting: Sunday, March 24, 2 - 4 local time
    (Eastern). Joint meeting with Arch. Council 4 - 5.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Agenda will be developed soon, but good time to discuss Kepler and
    other "big picture" items.

<!-- end list -->

  - April 4, 2012 (our regular "first Wednesday" meeting, at Noon
    Eastern).

## Reference

  -
    [Juno Wiki page](Juno "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Indigo
    retrospective](Indigo_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")