## Logistics

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council Conference Call**                                                                                                                                                          |
| Date & Time:   | Wednesday, March 03, 2010, at [1700 UTC / 0900 SFO / 1200 NYC / 1700 London / 1800 Berlin](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2010&month=03&day=3&hour=17&min=0&sec=0) |
| Dial-in:       | For the call-in numbers, see the "Project Review" number on [Foundation Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.                                          |

## Attendees

<table style="width:30%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 30%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oliver Cole</p></td>
<td><p>Tptp (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><del>Doug Gaff</del> ???</p></td>
<td><p>Dsdp (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p><br />
</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Anthony Hunter</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oisin Hurley</p></td>
<td><p>Stp (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Thomas Watson</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC) (appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>Strategic Reps</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Stefan Daume</p></td>
<td><p>Cloudsmith Inc.(Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Kaloyan Raev</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Christian Kurzke</p></td>
<td><p>Motorola (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p> </p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>Appointed</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p> </p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Mike Milinkovich</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p><br />
</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p><br />
<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above attendance record.</small><br />
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small><br />
<small>N = No, did not</small><br />
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Inactive

<table style="width:30%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 30%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p> ?</p></td>
<td><p>Nokia (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p> ?</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p> ?</p></td>
<td><p>brox IT-Solutions GmbH (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p><br />
<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic">Strategic Members</a> we have not heard from in a year or so, and have been unable to convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>



## Galileo

Assessment of SR2

Potential (near?) negative impact on adopters:

  -
    Some "late"
      -
        Modeling EMF ?CDO? missed deadline
        DTP final zips late (sort of)?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Not all projects had maintenance/rebuilds (do we need to explicitly
    "plan" for that?)
      -
        EclipseLink (thought they would not need an SR2, but after all
        decided they will need maintenance ... in March or so\! ...
        apparently, this team has pattern of creating their service
        release shortly after the rest of us release?)
        PDT (PHP Tools) didn't have an SR2, but I saw one user on
        mailing list saying "he sure thought they needed one, based on
        important fixes made in Helios, that could be back ported ...
        its a long time to wait" (I've no idea if he was accurate ...
        just raising as an example that caught my attention).
        Potential for some Orbit Jars to not be consistent in some
        packages vs. others, if not everyone re-builds or re-packages.
        (Just one or two substantial changes, this time, but all others
        changed signatures).
        There were nearly equal numbers of projects that supplied
        service, vs. those that did not

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        service released in SR2

:::\#actf.build

:::\#birt.build

:::\#cdt.build

:::\#dltk.build

:::\#dsdp-tm.build

:::\#dtp.build

:::\#ecf.build

:::\#eclipselink.build

:::\#ep.build

:::\#epp-udc.build

:::\#equinox.build

:::\#gef.build

:::\#gmf.build

:::\#jwt.build

:::\#m2m-atl.build

:::\#m2t-jet.build

:::\#mylyn.build

:::\#rap.build

:::\#stp.build

:::\#subversive.build

:::\#swordfish.build

:::\#tptp.build

:::\#webtools.build

  -

      -
        no service released with SR2

:::\#buckminster.build

:::\#dsdp-tm.build

:::\#emf-cdo.build

:::\#emf-compare.build

:::\#emf-emf.build

:::\#emf-net4j.build

:::\#emf-teneo.build

:::\#emf-transaction.build

:::\#emft-ecoretools.build

:::\#emft-mint.build

:::\#emft-mwe.build

:::\#m2m-qvtoml.build

:::\#m2t-xpand.build

:::\#mat.build

:::\#mdt-ocl.build

:::\#mdt-uml2.build

:::\#mdt-uml2tools.build

:::\#mdt-xsd.build

:::\#pdt.build

:::\#riena.build

:::\#tmf-xtext.build



  -
    Any other concerns with SR2?

Good things:

  -
    Maintained "old" content (SR1) in repository (in addition to new)
    Rolled out P2 artifacts before P2 metadata (instead of artifacts and
    metadata visible at same time)
    Any other positive things with SR2 to document? \[*mk - it went
    smoother than every other release before.*\]

''Notes from meeting: '' No particular concerns, except Anthony and Ed
both commented that in the cases they were aware of, "no service
release" was just because there wasn't any bugs, that had been requested
for that service release. Even GEF was almost "no service" with only one
bug fixed. GMF, on the other hand, had many requests.

## Helios

  - Common repository naming/structure

<!-- end list -->

  -
    I want to recommend "guidelines" that may become "required" next
    year (but not for Helios) but some, such as webtools, may move to it
    this release:
    ... structure of .../<project>/repository/<release>/\[SRn |
    datetimestamp\]/
    ... naming in feature URL would be (only)
    .../<project>/repository/<release>/
      -
        where 'project' is high level project (Top level? except Tools
        and Technology? ... or request even Tools and Technology to have
        central one, or at least part of name and/or structure?
        Such as /tools/gef/repository/helios/ ?
        where 'release' is Yearly Release Name (e.g. 'helios') ... only
        for those in yearly release. Others would need to use some
        version number. (reserving yearly release name, for only those
        in yearly release).

<!-- end list -->

  - Also, do we agree that projects in release train can omit feature
    update URL? if they would like to? (since the common release
    repository URL is built into platform). We need less "repository
    locations" clutter. Risk is it would be a little harder to provide
    off-cycle maintenance (users would need to add project location to
    their list) for those projects deciding not to provide their own
    URL. They would, still, need to provide their own repository (since
    that's where central one is created from) just not name it in the
    feature.xml.

''Notes from meeting: '' General agreement this was a good thing to do,
and dw to write up for further review and/or (optional) adoption.

### Cross-Project Teams

#### Aggregation

[Planning Council/Cross Project
Teams/Aggregation](Cross_Project_Teams/Aggregation.md)

Previously mentioned planned meeting didn't happen ... and after some
email exchanges, nothing concrete seemed needed right away, except ....

We will encourage people to test Galileo to Helios upgrade, but not do
anything to enable that to be "automatic". See or comment in bug .

New question: Should we require projects to specify version numbers in
.build file?

  -

      -
        Technically, if omitted, then simply "highest" one is retrieved
        from repository. That can be good, easier, but a little less
        error checking and record of what was intended.

#### Tracking progress and compliance

  -
    [Planning Council/Cross Project
    Teams/Tracking](Cross_Project_Teams/Tracking.md)

Review readiness of current version on Portal

Comments? Ok to move forward? Does anyone prefer Plan B or Plan C?

''Notes from meeting: '' Council thought it was good and near ready. A
few might review a bit more and have comments later, to be mailed to
planning list. Tom and Oliver had suggestions for improvements, which I
captured as follows, and forwarded to Gabe:

1\. Make the three main sections look more like sections (as it is, sort
of looks like just another item).

For example, perhaps indent the items 3 or 5 spaces from left and right
margins (leaving the headings and their text as they are, flush with
margins)? Also, perhaps use larger font for the three section
"headings"?

2\. At the very top, perhaps even above the "tracking project" line, put
some explanation, and handy links.

Here's what I think it should be:

This form is to track progress towards the yearly
<a href="http://wiki.eclipse.org/Helios/Simultaneous_Release_Plan">Simultaneous
Release</a>, for those project that have stated their intent and
agreement to be part of that release. Projects (usually the Project
Lead) should document their progress here, on meeting the
<a href="http://www.eclipse.org/helios/planning/EclipseSimultaneousRelease.php">requirements
for the Simultaneous Release</a>. Questions on how to complete the form
can be asked on the
<a href="mailto:cross-project-issues-dev@eclipse.org">cross-project
list</a>. Suggestions for improving the form or process (or
cross-project bugs) can be opened on the
<a href="https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/enter_bug.cgi?product=Community;component=Cross-Project">cross-project
bugs component</a>. Bugs on this form itself can be opened on the
<a href="https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/enter_bug.cgi?product=Community;component=Portal">Foundation
Portal component</a>.

## ToDo Items

  - create (and update) [helios container
    plan](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/project-plan.php?projectid=helios)
    (Wayne (re) volunteered)

<!-- end list -->

  - provide concrete instructions for (new) license-consistency
    requirement ... before M6? (John Arthorne).

<!-- end list -->

  - coordinate community input for next year's name (Oliver says last
    year this was started "shortly before EclipseCon" ... so now's the
    time\!.

## Other business

  - Reminder: face-face EclipseCon meeting 2:00 to 3:00 (local time) on
    the Sunday before EclispeCon (3/21) in the Bayshore room of the
    Hyatt Santa Clara.
  - Followed by "joint meeting" with other councils.

## Next Meeting

  -
    EclispeCon 3/21 2:00 PM Pacific Time, in the Bayshore room of the
    Hyatt Santa Clara

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [April 7, Wednesday](April_07_2010.md),
    Noon Eastern Time.

## Reference

[Helios Simultaneous Release](Helios_Simultaneous_Release "wikilink")

[Planning Council
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

[Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink") and
[Simultaneous Release
Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")