## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, March 7, 2018, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2018&amp;month=03&amp;day=7&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>Topic: Planning Council Meeting Time: this is a recurring meeting Meet anytime</p>
<p>Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android: <a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320">https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320</a></p>
<p>Or iPhone one-tap :</p>
<p><code>   US: +16699006833,,928841320#  or +14086380968,,928841320#</code></p>
<p>Or Telephone:</p>
<p><code>   Dial(for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location)：</code><br />
<code>       US: +1 669 900 6833  or +1 408 638 0968  or +1 646 876 9923</code><br />
<code>       Canada: +1 647 558 0588</code><br />
<code>       France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188</code><br />
<code>       Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188</code><br />
<code>       United Kingdom: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088</code><br />
<code>       Switzerland: +41 (0) 31 528 0988</code><br />
<code>       Sweden: +46 (0) 8 4468 2488</code><br />
<code>       Denmark: +45 89 88 37 88</code><br />
<code>       Netherlands: +31 (0) 20 241 0288</code><br />
<code>   Meeting ID: 928 841 320</code><br />
<code>   International numbers available: </code><a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf"><code>https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf</code></a></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members

Planning Council Chair: Melanie Bats

### Eclipse Foundation

  - Wayne Beaton
  - Frederic Gurr
  - Mikael Barbero

### Strategic Members

  - CA Technologies
  - CEA LIST
  - Ericsson AB (Marc-Andre Laperle)
  - IBM (Thomas Watson)
  - itemis AG (Alexander Nyssen)
  - Obeo (Melanie Bats)
  - Oracle (Neil Hauge)
  - Red Hat, Inc. (Nick Boldt)
  - Robert Bosch GmbH
  - SAP SE (Stephan Merker)

### PMC Representatives

  - Business Intelligence and Reporting Tools (BIRT) PMC (Gary Xue)
  - Data Tools Platform PMC (Brian Payton)
  - Eclipse Cloud Development PMC (Martin Lippert)
  - Eclipse Project PMC (Dani Megert)
  - IoT
  - LocationTech Technology
  - Eclipse Modeling Project PMC (Ed Merks)
  - Mylyn (Application Lifecycle Tools) PMC (Sam Davis)
  - PolarSys
  - Eclipse Runtime Project (RT) PMC
  - Eclipse Science
  - Service Oriented Architecture PMC (Adrian Mos)
  - Technology PMC (Chris Aniszczyk)
  - Tools Project PMC (Aleksandar Kurtakov)
  - Eclipse Web Tools Platform Project (WTP) PMC (Carl Anderson)

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

## Agenda

  - Photon & Oxygen status
  - Oxygen 3.a for Java 10 support status
  - Post Photon SimRel status : Please before the call **read and
    comment** the proposed
    [FAQ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IVA59E5bxv1l1W1ZTSZMUUH7IKIO-mRLEGn1bVO-dFs/edit?usp=sharing)

## Attendance

Aleksandar Kurtakov (Tools Project), Ed Merks (Eclipse Modeling
Project), Frederic Gurr (Eclipse Foundation), Martin Lippert (Eclipse
Cloud Development), Mickael Barbero (Eclipse Foundation), Mélanie Bats
(Obeo), Nick Boldt (Red Hat), Thomas Watson (IBM), Wayne Beaton (Eclipse
Foundation)

Regrets : Dani Megert (Eclipse Project), Sam Davis (Mylyn)

## Notes

### Photon & Oxygen status

Everything is okay. Oxygen.3 RC4 EPP Package for tomorrow, should be the
Oxygen.3 released on March 21st Oxygen.3a for April 11, Java 10 support
seems to be ready.

### Post Photon SimRel status

The planning council has decided on the mailing list that the cadence
will be 13 weeks starting from the June 25 2018.

After the review of the
[FAQ](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IVA59E5bxv1l1W1ZTSZMUUH7IKIO-mRLEGn1bVO-dFs/edit?usp=sharing),
some points were discussed during the call :

#### Tracking

Wayne asked how we would track people that would be in or out? It is
difficult to track the activity on the projects, as some projects being
mature are very stable and are still participating to the release train.
The idea was to just declare once that a project is in and then we would
never ask again until there is nor more activity. This does not seem to
be feasible. It was discussed also to rely on the aggregation files to
see whose in, but there are some projects that could be part of the
SimRel but who do not contribute to the P2 repositories (example of
Orion & Che). This discussion will be continued on the mailing list.

#### Milestones vs Checkpoints

Fred detailed on the mailing list that the new cadence will generate
fewer tests as it will reduce the number of EPP packages build. He
proposed to replace the checkpoint 2 C2 by a milestone to increase the
number of tests as during last year we had many different respins. In
the end it was proposed to just have miletones no more checkpoint, and
clarify that a milestone just means that we are building EPP package and
wait for feedback from the community to test it. There will be no respin
for miletsone we will rebuild EPP just for the next milestone. So in the
end the proposed planning for the cycle would be :

  - M1 Friday Week 3 : Milestone 1 - all the projects are expected to
    contribute their latest working version for a 1st alignment,
    <http://download.eclipse.org/staging> is built, EPP packages are
    released for tests
  - M2 Friday Week 6: Milestone 2 - all the projects are expected to
    contribute their latest working version for a 2nd alignment, API
    breakages are in, <http://download.eclipse.org/staging> is built,
    EPP packages are released for tests
  - M3 Friday Week 9 : Milestone 3 - all the projects are expected to
    contribute their latest working version for a 3rd alignment,
    <http://download.eclipse.org/staging> is built, EPP packages are
    released for tests
  - RC1 Friday Week 10 : API & Feature freeze
    <http://download.eclipse.org/staging> is built, EPP packages are
    released for tests
  - RC2 Friday Week 11 : Only fixes it is assumed all code is done by
    the end of RC2, <http://download.eclipse.org/staging> is built, EPP
    packages are released for tests.
  - GA Wednesday Week 13 : <http://download.eclipse.org/releases/xxx> is
    released and EPP packages,
    <http://download.eclipse.org/releases/latest> is updated to point to
    the new release.

See the [proposed
schedule](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1BZywK-gKbK-fmcEkxv550OHmw01xEN07RK9LMPSE40g/edit?usp=sharing)
updated for the next 3 years and the update [FAQ
draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IVA59E5bxv1l1W1ZTSZMUUH7IKIO-mRLEGn1bVO-dFs/edit?usp=sharing).

#### Naming

Mélanie proposed on the mailing list the name following the pattern
year.month: Eclipse YYYY.MM. This does not seem to fit what the Eclipse
Foundation expect, we should avoid confusion with the Eclipse brand by
adding a qualifier between Eclipse and the year month pattern: Eclipse
XXX YYYY.MM Many different propositions were done :

  - Eclipse Simultaneous Release
  - Eclipse SimRel
  - Eclipse Simrel
  - Eclipse Train
  - Eclipse Q... and continue to change every year in june as we do
    today
  - Eclipse in Concert
  - Eclipse Collective
  - Eclipse United

As it seems quite difficult to get a clear decision on that point,
Mélanie will open a bugzilla to let every one participate and
contribute. Ed will broad this topic to the Board as Eclipse branding is
also discussed there.

Mélanie will announce this week our intention to switch to a rolling
release after Photon on cross-project.