## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, May 08, 2013, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2013&amp;month=05&amp;day=08&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992 (new number), 1-877-369-7806 (old number)</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Steffen Pingel</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Bob Brodt substituting for Adrian Mos</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker (with Kaloyan)</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Igor Fedorenko</p></td>
<td><p>Sonatype (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Tiede</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Rajeev Dayal</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - New members:

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Rajeev Dayal, Google (Strategic Member rep)
    Stephan Merker, SAP AG (Strategic Member rep)
    Chuck Bridgham: WTP PMC (PMC rep)

*Welcomed new members, and Stephan and Chuck introduced themselves. Many
thank to Kaloyan for his years of service on the Council.*

  - Critical IP/review dates announced.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    For details, see [this cross-project post from
    Wayne](http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg08897.html).
    In brief,
      -
        May 24/2013 - Deadline to submit IP Logs for Kepler releases
        June 5/2013 - PMC-approved Review materials submitted to EMO
        June 12/2013 - Kepler Uber Release review
        June 26/2013 - Kepler release
    Make sure the projects you represent [subscribe to cross-project
    list](http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg08898.html).
      -
        If you need a "how to" reminder, see [the general Eclipse.org
        mailing list page](https://dev.eclipse.org/mailman/listinfo) or
        [the specific cross-project
        page](https://dev.eclipse.org/mailman/listinfo/cross-project-issues-dev).

*Wayne added other reminders, that there will be renewed vigor in making
sure projects have project plans, valid websites, operate in an
open-transparent way ... and in some cases this means Wayne will involve
the PMCs more (who, after all, are responsible for their projects) so
... Planning Council reps, do what you can to remind/monitor the
projects you represent.*

*From Wayne's observations, there are two projects that participate in
Sim. Rel., but don't subscribe to cross-project list: DLTK, and Eclipse
Runtime Project (both Technology Projects).*

## Kepler

### M7 and "end game"

  - Issues?

<!-- end list -->

  - Be aware that EGit is moving to "3.0" in M7.

''Build currently broken . Some "compatibility issues" being ironed out.
(Forgot to mention during meeting, but Markus communicated with me
before the meeting, that EPP builds are "looking better" ... so, maybe I
can sleep again :) ''

## EclipseCon face-to-face follow-through action items

For original meeting notes, see
[March_24_2013](Planning_Council/March_24_2013.md)
and for discussion leading to action items, see
[April_10_2013](Planning_Council/April_10_2013.md).

#### Policy on new releases joining SR

  -
    dw to update current policy on new releases joining SR in Policy
    FAQ. Done. See [Policy
    FAQ](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_FAQ#Can_a_new_project_or_feature_join_a_Simultaneous_Service_Release_.28SR1_or_SR2.29.3F "wikilink").

#### Build reproducibility

dw to come up with "perfect example". Add to wiki, send to Wayne and
Than, and see if some way "CBI" maven task could produce, from template,
as part of build output.

dw better educate. Give perfect example on wiki. Emphasize non-changing
repos. Give "acceptable" example on wiki. Give "unacceptable" examples
on wiki.

dw create "report of changes" from one build to another, one repo to
another, so a) individual projects could see if things changed when they
should not have; b) PMCs, Team Leads, Planning council could better
observe "big picture" of how much change there was, especially related
to changes in build input files.

dw start to tag build file project, each build (so we could diff build
files).

wayne to add item to release review that "there must be a retention
policy" (it should cover how long repos stay around, such as milestone
repos, and also via ?education? emphasis that it must be
"non-changing".) And then Planning Council can add extra rules for sim.
release, if necessary.

#### Release train rules documentation

John and Neil volunteered to improve. The idea is to provide briefer
version, but still (probably via hyperlinks?) allow readers to find out
"reasons" for a rule. This would be for Luna (due in Fall, after Kepler
release).

#### Release train rhythm

Wayne volunteered to add suggestion/idea to GSOC database to make some
user friendly way that users could say "I want to follow beta releases"
... this would add the "current" development stream URL to update sites,
so they'd get updates from milestones, without having to know about it,
and manually add it.

### Orbit

The Orbit Project Lead (dw) agreed to a plan for a plan ... a plan will
be created after Kepler release, by end of August (since July often a
"slow" month) ... and implemented in the months after that.

## Next Meeting

  - June 5, 2013 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting - our last before
    release
  - July -- No meeting in July - we will be relaxing after release
  - August 7, 2013 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting ... almost time for
    SR1\!

## Reference

  -
    [Kepler Wiki page](Kepler "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Juno Wiki page](Juno "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Indigo
    retrospective](Indigo_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")