## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, May 4, 2016, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2016&amp;month=05&amp;day=04&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Martin Lippert</p></td>
<td><p>Cloud (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Sam Davis</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Alexander Nyssen</p></td>
<td><p>Itemis</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Nick Boldt (and Max)</p></td>
<td><p>Redhat (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Remi Schnekenburger</p></td>
<td><p>CEA List (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>EPP (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(has PMC rep; Dani Megert)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Gary Xue)</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(has/had PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Rajeev Dayal)</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Wayne remind projects of Neon's critical dates and "new and
    Noteworthy". To quote

<!-- end list -->

    May 26/2016 - IP Log submission deadline
    June 2/2016 - Review materials due

    If you want your project featured in the aggregated new and noteworthy document [1], you need to set the New & Noteworthy URL field in the Review section of your project's Neon release record [2].

    When it comes to marketing the release, it's really all about the end user IDE features. If you have any killer new features, please let me know ASAP.

    Thanks,

    Wayne

    [1] https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=485299
    [2] https://projects.eclipse.org/releases/neon

  - Any others?

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

## Neon Planning (and beyond)

  - There has been a lot of discussion about "giving up release name"
    and using "date" instead.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Wasn't adding "build id" meant to do that?
    \- IMHO, classic case of stating a solution, instead of the problem.
      -
        \- (Doug) IMHO, no. Let's not make sure this isn't a classic
        case of not listening to the community ;). We've talked in the
        past about giving up the names and using numbers, years or
        otherwise. A number of people in the community are letting their
        opinions be known, senior members of the community included. For
        more information, check Tracy Miranda's blog and the ide-dev
        list where much support was shown for her concerns including a
        well thought out discussion of the alternatives.
          -
            \- To be explicit, I meant it is always better to state the
            problem to be solved, rather than a solution, and then
            everyone have their own interpretation of what problem it
            solves. In [Tracy's
            Blog](https://kichwacoders.com/2016/04/28/why-its-time-to-kill-the-eclipse-release-namesneon-oxygen-etc/)
            and the [the one it
            mentions](https://opensource.com/business/16/3/kill-off-extra-brand-names)
            and the ide-dev mailing list thread, I have heard the
            following problems mentioned:

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \* Users do not know how old their install is
        \* Users do not know there is are more recent release
          -
            \- They expect "update" would find it if there was a more
            recent one
        \* Users are confused by too many choices of packages ("which
        one is for Java")
        \* There are too many "brand names" (often in the form of
        acronyms -- and more in the form of "release code names" -- and
        now it has been proposed we add (not replace) even more
        information in the form of dates)

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \* So, my question remains, which problem(s) are we trying to
        solve by adding dates? Does it do that without replacing "code
        name" as originally suggested?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \* Also, is this for "EPP Only", as this [EPP Version
        proposal](EPP/Version_Proposal "wikilink") implies? If so, then
        the Planning Council does not need to be directly involved. It
        is EPP's decision (though I know there is overlap and there is
        no harm is us having a recommendation).

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \* Also, which location of code names are we talking about? Or
        where to add dates? We currently use "code names" in several
        places:

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- Splash screen
        \- About box
        \- URLs (downloads, repositories, help)
        \- Many web pages
        \- Zip and tar filenames
        \- Marketing materials and press releases
        \- Plans and schedules

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \* \[Do not read anything extra into me asking these questions
        -- I like several of the ideas I've heard -- I am merely trying
        to be explicit and set proper expectations of how much we can
        solve.\]

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \* There is not much documented in past notes, but from quick
        search I found we discuss this topic about the same time of
        every year:
          -
            \-
            [March_16_2014](Planning_Council/March_16_2014.md)
            \-
            [March_04_2015](Planning_Council/March_04_2015.md)

<!-- end list -->

  - *Had a long and winding discussion on this topic, but seemed to not
    be consensus on a solution. There was agreement there was a problem,
    but we were uncertain how large or widespread it was and how it
    would trade-off with a "complete change". For example, would "code
    name plus date" be sufficient, and provide an incremental change? Or
    do we need to eliminate the code name completely from external
    communications. The "original problem", some described, was new
    users not even knowing that the "release code names" were
    release/version code names, and somehow thought they were products
    or packages in and of themselves.*
  - ''The conclusion, for now, was to ask Wayne to drive getting more
    "feedback from the community". Perhaps at Java One, perhaps a "quick
    poll" on download page. He will discuss with Ian the appropriate
    way. ''

ACTION ITEM: Wayne to discuss with Ian on how best to get more data from
community of users.

### old (ongoing) stuff

  - Should we change "maintenance" staging name now? for Mars.2? See .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- \[See also  for unreleated additional URL.\]

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- Still "todo" item. (i.e. not done yet, apologies for delay)

<!-- end list -->

  - Release Policy vs. Release mechanics. This is being tracked in .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    In M6 we changed to have (nearly) all features to be "root features.
    Now what?

<!-- end list -->

  - "Rolling release" issue.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        I have sometimes heard it suggested we allow more of a
        "continuous release". Is this something we should discuss?
        Should we have some long term planning for it? Such as, what
        would it take to accomplish that?
        This could be planned with or without the "beta stream"
        mechanisms sometimes discussed.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    '' Did not discuss much during this meeting, other than to note
    similarity to above issue.''

<!-- end list -->

  - Should the ability to update from yearly release to yearly release
    be a 'requirement'?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        **Impossible now, for Neon. Right? (for EPP Packages) Do we
        still need "streamless-URL" now?**

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        What would this take? (Such as features are never "just removed"
        but are replaced or transitioned?)
        Preferences, views, etc. have to "migrate" (if their ID
        changes).
        What testing would projects have to do?
        May become "defacto requirement" once  is implemented.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Seemed to be no objection to "trying it" and with Neon we will "try
    it" by having the "streamless-URL" proposed in . For Neon, we will
    not use that URL automatically anywhere but users can add it if they
    would like. Will be interesting to see if many bug reports occur
    from people trying that "update to next main release" (that is, from
    Mars to Neon).*

## Oxygen Planning

  - ?

## New Business

  - Draft [Eclipse Project Branding
    Requirements](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/trademarks.php)
    (Wayne)

## Next Meeting

  - On 5/31 decided to postpone the June 1 meeting by one week to June
    8th.
  - June 8, 2016 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting -- last meeting
    before release\! (Unless we find a need for another.)

## Reference

  -
    [Neon Wiki page](Neon "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")