## Logistics

**Pay attention time has changed, the meeting is one hour earlier than
before**

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, May 2, 2018, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2018&amp;month=05&amp;day=2&amp;hour=11&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">11:00 EDT</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>Topic: Planning Council Meeting Time: this is a recurring meeting Meet anytime</p>
<p>Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android: <a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320">https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/928841320</a></p>
<p>Or iPhone one-tap :</p>
<p><code>   US: +16699006833,,928841320#  or +14086380968,,928841320#</code></p>
<p>Or Telephone:</p>
<p><code>   Dial(for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location)：</code><br />
<code>       US: +1 669 900 6833  or +1 408 638 0968  or +1 646 876 9923</code><br />
<code>       Canada: +1 647 558 0588</code><br />
<code>       France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188</code><br />
<code>       Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188</code><br />
<code>       United Kingdom: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088</code><br />
<code>       Switzerland: +41 (0) 31 528 0988</code><br />
<code>       Sweden: +46 (0) 8 4468 2488</code><br />
<code>       Denmark: +45 89 88 37 88</code><br />
<code>       Netherlands: +31 (0) 20 241 0288</code><br />
<code>   Meeting ID: 928 841 320</code><br />
<code>   International numbers available: </code><a href="https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf"><code>https://eclipse.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DufCm8dm7aEOYkLMWpY6qLgJMUtWhOnf</code></a></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members

Planning Council Chair: Melanie Bats

### Eclipse Foundation

  - Wayne Beaton
  - Frederic Gurr
  - Mikael Barbero

### Strategic Members

  - CA Technologies
  - CEA LIST
  - Ericsson AB (Marc-Andre Laperle)
  - IBM (Thomas Watson)
  - itemis AG (Alexander Nyssen)
  - Obeo (Melanie Bats)
  - Oracle (Neil Hauge)
  - Red Hat, Inc. (Nick Boldt)
  - Robert Bosch GmbH
  - SAP SE (Stephan Merker)

### PMC Representatives

  - Business Intelligence and Reporting Tools (BIRT) PMC (Gary Xue)
  - Data Tools Platform PMC (Brian Payton)
  - Eclipse Cloud Development PMC (Martin Lippert)
  - Eclipse Project PMC (Dani Megert)
  - IoT
  - LocationTech Technology
  - Eclipse Modeling Project PMC (Ed Merks)
  - Mylyn (Application Lifecycle Tools) PMC (Sam Davis)
  - PolarSys
  - Eclipse Runtime Project (RT) PMC
  - Eclipse Science
  - Service Oriented Architecture PMC (Adrian Mos)
  - Technology PMC (Chris Aniszczyk)
  - Tools Project PMC (Aleksandar Kurtakov)
  - Eclipse Web Tools Platform Project (WTP) PMC (Carl Anderson)

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

## Agenda

  - Photon & Oxygen status
  - Post Photon SimRel status

## Attendance

Aleksandar Kurtakov, Dani Megert, Mikael Barbero, Sam Davis, Ed Merks,
Thomas Watson, Nick Boldt, Wayne Beaton, Martin Lippert

Regrets : Frederic Gurr

## Notes

Everyone aggreed with the fact that the monthly Planning Council call
will occur now every month the first wednesday at 11:00 EDT.

### Photon status

Amalgam on cross project proposes today to contribute a 1.8.0 instead of
2.0.0, Wayne will answer and update the Photon page accordingly.

Fred could not attend the call so there is no much status, but Mikaël
will check tomorrow with him & report back to the mailing list.
Everything seems to be in good shape.

### Post photon status

During last call,discussing the bugzilla \#532220 the Planning Council
concluded that the naming must be inclusive enough. It was decided to
use the following pattern for the name : Eclipse YYYY-MM. Wayne
explained that this decision violates the trademark usage guidelines. It
is impossible to just use names like "Eclipse YYYY-MM". "Eclipse" needs
to be used as an adjective to conform to the guidelines.

Discussing the name leads us to discuss the role of the Palnning Council
in the future and the existence of only one Simultaneous Release. It
already exists 3 differents simultaenaous release today :

  - The classical SimRel
  - The Science woring group SimRel
  - The Polarsys SimRel

The Science and Polarsys ones are not as visible today as the classical
one which leads most of people thinking that it exist only one.

In private previously to the call Wayne & Mélanie discussed the fact
that they would like to revitalize the Planning Council. Wayne explained
during the call that he will launch an initiative to integrate new
members & generalize the Simultaneous Release Process. These new members
would be from different parts of the Eclipse community : Science, IoT,
JakartaEE... Wayne explained that there is some notion of SimRel
(software repos, regular milestones, RCS, communication...) that other
could be interested in, and today we know how to do it. The purpose
would be to generalize some aspects of the simultaneous release by
creating something like an "Eclipse Simutlaneous Release Process".
Eclipse SimRel docs exists for years, needs to be reviewed as some part
are very specific relative to p2 but it is a good starting point.

Tom noted that the role of the planning council would be a mentoring
role for the different committees.

Wayne answered that we need to figure out what that looks like :

  - The planning council meets as whole less frequently (quarterly) with
    the role to lead the process & supervise the different committees?
  - Separate committees which meet more frequently (monthly) to organize
    their SimRels (schedule, reject/remove projects, participate on
    communication on cross-project...)?

A subset of actual Planning Council members would participate in the
different instances.

After this clarification about the future of the SimRel, the discussion
about the naming started :
<https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=532220> Ed asked where
this name appears? Where is it relevant ?

  - In all communication
  - Plans
  - URLs
  - Splash screen (it should not a date would be enough

In the end it exists few places where this name should appear and
propose to call it SimRel.

Dani answered that it feels as SimRel is a stupid name and that we
should just keep the date without Eclipse, it would be inclusive or
exclude everybody. SimRel is a notion used internally for work
coordination but not a end-user notion. It should appear in no UI, nor
spalschscreens, just on wikipage and emails, just use the date on splash
screens.

Ed noted that the name would be used for the wikipage and so just a date
would not be sufficient and so that we need a label.

As the Simrel would become X SimRel we should find a more descriptive
name which describe for each what they are.

IDE or Developper tools, IDE SimRel were proposed. But the reality of
the community is that it exists 4 different IDEs : the original one,
Che, Orion, Theia... We should find a new name for the classical IDE
part : Desktop (some other IDEs are also desktop ones), Eclipse S...

In the end, as it is impossible to find a good descriptive name for the
actual SimRel, it was decided to call it : Eclipse SimRel YYYY-MM. This
will not appear anywhere, just used for work collaboration and so pages
on the wiki the pages would be under SimRel/. Everyone were okay with
this name and the fact that this would be rediscussed in the future when
the different committees & SimRels would be created.

Mélanie started to put the dates for the September release in the Google
Calendar, the Planning Council will validate those dates. The proposed
schedule is : **Eclipse 2018.09**

|                |              |              |              |            |           |                |
| -------------- | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ | ---------- | --------- | -------------- |
|                | \+0 Frid.    | \+1 Mon.     | \+2 Tues.    | \+3 Wed.   | EPP Thur. | Available Fri. |
| M1             | 13/07        | 16/07        | 17/07        | 18/07      | 19/07     | 20/07          |
| M2             | 03/08        | 06/08        | 07/08        | 08/08      | 09/08     | 10/08          |
| M3             | 24/08        | 27/08        | 28/08        | 29/08      | 30/08     | 31/8           |
| RC1            | 31/08        | 03/09        | 04/09        | 05/09      | 06/09     | 07/09          |
| RC2            | 07/09        | 10/09        | 11/09        | 12/09      | 13/09     | 14/09          |
| 2018.09 (“GA”) | quiet: 14/09 | quiet: 17/09 | quiet: 18/09 | GA : 19/09 | \-        | \-             |

\- -

Wayne will work on getting a better engagement from other part of the
community by bringing fresh blood from new Strategic members and PMCs.
He will also add a comment on the Photon N\&N bugzilla to communicate
the cadence change after Photon. He will create a new one to get the
actual implication of this change for the community.