## Logistics

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council Conference Call**                                                                                                                                                      |
| Date & Time:   | Wednesday, May 06 2009, at [1600 UTC / 0900 SFO / 1200 NYC / 1700 London / 1800 Berlin](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2009&month=5&day=6&hour=16&min=0&sec=0) |
| Dial-in:       | For the call-in numbers, see the "Project Review" number on [Foundation Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.                                      |

## Attendees

|             |
| ----------- |
| width="30%" |

|                      |                                   |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| Chris Aniszczyk      |                                   |
| Cedric Brun          | Y                                 |
| Oliver Cole          |                                   |
| Stefan Daume         | Y                                 |
| Brian Fitzpatrick    |                                   |
| Bjorn Freeman-Benson |                                   |
| Doug Gaff            |                                   |
| Neil Hauge           |                                   |
| Mika Hoikkala        |                                   |
| Anthony Hunter       | Cannot attend today (on vacation) |
| Oisin Hurley         |                                   |
| Markus Knauer        |                                   |
| Christian Kurzke     |                                   |
| Gary                 |                                   |
| Ed Merks             |                                   |
| Mike Milinkovich     |                                   |
| Philippe Mulet       |                                   |
| James Saliba         |                                   |
| Georg Schmidt        |                                   |
| Karsten Schmidt      |                                   |
| Thomas Watson        |                                   |
| David Williams       |                                   |

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>

## Topics

  - Status of Naming next year's release (Thanks Oliver).

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        See the [doodle poll](http://www.doodle.com/fqkqrc6nqzfby7ni)
        Vote to conclude on May 15.
        Let's discuss before final decision? (at meeting on 20th?)

<!-- end list -->

  - Build update

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Transitioned to "BuckyBuilder" (Thanks Thomas)
        Is now (partially) a composite site (implies more
        responsibility/coordination from 'Eclipse Platform').
        "New" requirement to use Java 5 for running pack200?

<!-- end list -->

  - Do we need a sign-off page?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Or just expect people to post exceptions or delays?

<!-- end list -->

  - See
    [Simultaneous_Release_Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and
    [Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  - Review [project
    status](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/galileo_status.php) and
    determine actions to take.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Are you happy with "must do" compliance?
        Happy with what's building?
          -
            Swordfish should be in today.
            Some haven't been installable (from update site, such as
            PHP).

<!-- end list -->

  - Previous Meeting Notes

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Accessibility

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Karsten (re) raised concern about the accessibility issue, and
        that so many of that "should do" items had no comment or status.
        ACTION: I offered to send reminder to cross-project list. (done)

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Babel's deadlines

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Tom asked about Babel's expectations and deadlines.
        ACTION: Since none of us knew, Tom will ask on Babel's
        newsgroup, and get back to Planning Council.
        Any news?

<!-- end list -->

  -   - Weekly build meetings?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        When, How, Who to have bi-weekly "build team" meetings?
        Oisin may follow-up with note to cross-project list with a a
        proposal.
        Any news? need?

<!-- end list -->

  - Next Meeting

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Regularly scheduled one on first wed. of June
        Do we need one before, say May 20th?

## Reference Links

[Galileo Simultaneous Release](Galileo_Simultaneous_Release "wikilink")

[Planning Council
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)