## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, May 6, 2015, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2015&amp;month=05&amp;day=06&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>John Arthorne (Acting)</p></td>
<td><p>Cloud (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Steffen Pingel (Sam Davis)</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>D</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Rajeev Dayal</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Neon is Mars+1 name\!

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like.

## Mars Planning

  - Any issues?

## Progress on Action Items

  - Improving user experience in finding right function to install. For
    latest ideas, see

<!-- end list -->

  -

    \- Create a Marketplace for the simultaneous release.

    *Overall, would be "driven" by Eclipse Foundation, but they would
    need help from top level projects, and the Planning Council.*

    For the latest ideas, see [Wayne's recent note to mailing
    list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02416.html).

## New Business

### Do we need to improve wording in [Policy of new projects joining in SR's](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Policy_FAQ "wikilink")

  -
    \- Its original intent was to say "Yes, new projects and features
    can join SRs" -- without requiring Planning Council exception, if
    they meet the requirements set out in that policy.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- But, as we clarified some wording/sections, especially the one
    about "no major releases", intended to avoid breaking API changes
    (for train, and adopters), that seems to be oriented towards only
    "new features", but, in a way, rules out "new projects" (since, by
    technical definition, would be a "major" version change from
    "nothing" to "1.0.0"?) But, I do not believe was the intent. After
    all, if it is completely new API, it would hardly have the ability
    to break anyone (at least, at API level ... "fitting in" and not
    breaking anyone, was the purpose of "getting into SR early".

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Is this confusing? Should wording be clarified?

*No wording changes at this time ... especially given subsequent topic.*

*Also said I wanted to add "features" explicitly to "must sign plugins",
and there was no disagreement. (They are never checked at runtime, since
they are not Java code, but are checked during installation -- best to
confirm that empirically).*

### Continuing Discussion of if or how to change "yearly release"?

#### History

  -
    \- Review of original motivations and problems solved by current
    process and schedule.
      -
        \-- Contrasting "styles" of "releases": Our yearly release was
        intended to be rock-solid release, that commercial adopters
        could count on being released on a predictable time, with a
        predictable level of quality -- so that their own money-making
        support processes would be predictable, and long term.
        \-- Another style: Some OS Projects like to have a "release"
        very frequently, typically at semi-random times, and often very
        frequently (from "weekly") to "several months"). Notice the
        parallel to our "I-builds" and "Milestone (Stable) builds).
          -
            \--- These releases are typically done when either
            "significant bugs in previous release had been fixed" or
            \--- There had been "enough new features added" that "things
            were ready").
        \-- An interesting (casual) observation: when these "frequent
        release" OS Projects were largely driven by a "service"
        organization, there is often one "release" (perhaps a year old,
        or so) that is the one (and only) one that they offered service
        contracts for ... which parallels our own yearly releases. (In
        other words, they use the word "release" to have more than one
        meaning.)

<!-- end list -->

  - \- Given the above, our "solution" was to provide a (voluntary)
    Simultaneous Release train once per year, while at the same time,
    emphasizing that individual projects could still release whenever
    they wanted.

<!-- end list -->

  - \- Short review of "pre-Callisto" days, to avoid repeating past
    mistakes; (Names and examples are a fictional melding of several
    cases). Platform released in June. TPTP and CDT a month or two
    later, WTP a month or two later. Only at that time, was a bug
    discovered in the Platform (by WTP nearing release) such that they
    could not release until SR1. Platform releases SR1 in September, WTP
    can now release. Only then was it observed that some regression was
    introduced that prevented CDT from working with the Platform SR1.
    So, CDT might hurry up with their SR1, or adopters would all have to
    patch a mix and match of components to make their product schedule.
    In the end, adopters could come up with a product, but it was pretty
    unlikely users could install other things from Eclipse into it,
    since there was no "standard" release to build on top of. Similar
    problem for other plugin providers, inside and outside Eclipse ...
    it was hard to find a stable, consistent set of things that "worked
    together", and even when they could, imagine the instructions to the
    end users on how many update sites to go to, getting precise
    versions of things (might be most recent, but might be down level)
    all to "make something work" ... and then no confidence that other
    things would work with that collection. So, it was thought "same
    schedule" and "one update site" was a good start at solving these
    early problems.

<!-- end list -->

  - \- Much has changed since those pre-Callisto days (such as rate of
    change has slowed) but ... that the principle is the same and is
    still valid.

<!-- end list -->

  - \- One reason, originally, that we had "integration over many
    milestones" as \*the\* key requirement (it was the only requirement,
    nearly, in Callisto) was A. to find bugs in OTHERS code (for
    example, some change in the Platform might not be reproducible if
    using only the Platform, but it would easily prevent WTP from
    working correctly, and if discovered "late", then there would be no
    time to fix it before the planned release date. B. Many of the bugs
    found in this situation are subtle, due to the many "interacting
    components" (even though only 20 or so, during Callisto). No one
    could possibly find them during any sort of quick smoke test, or
    even a few weeks of "testing one component"; but only when used in
    "real life" use-cases and workloads ... and we are gratefully to our
    community of early-adopter users, for trying to do just that, and
    providing that valuable feedback over a period of many months.

<!-- end list -->

  - \- The other, "checklist" requirements have been added to or changed
    over the years for some items. These typically fall into categories
    of "minimum" to-do items, to work in one repository, without making
    us look silly (or, security related) and then also into a category
    of things that allow better adoption by other projects and
    commercial adopters.

#### The Future

##### Statement of Problem

  - There is some (ongoing) concern that "we" (the Eclipse Foundation)
    need ability to "release more often" or "with very short cycle".
    Some have mentioned "once every 6 months". Some, in the past, have
    said "once a year is too frequent, and should be once every two
    years" (as LTS was originally proposed to support \[current policy
    is a little less formal, mostly "any SR2" and sometimes even SR1, as
    I understand it\]). And, some projects want (or, do) release every
    month or two (especially new projects). How can we be "all things,
    to all people"? (Or, at least, get much closer than we are now).

<!-- end list -->

  - Our [Policy of new projects joining in
    SR's](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Policy_FAQ "wikilink") was
    intended to be one step in that direction. (And, at first, many said
    that was enough ... that satisfied needs, that I could even take the
    on-going discussion off of the agenda \[reference\] ... but now ...

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-- Some have mentioned "the timing" is still not right, and
        need something between SR1 and SR2.
        \-- Some have mentioned that "SR" (Service Release) is the wrong
        name, if it is going to contain new projects and new features.
        (And, not sure if it is that incorrect 'SR' naming, but it does
        seem it is a widely misunderstood policy -- by even Planning
        Council members.
          -
            \--- We discussed naming in previous meeting \[find
            reference\].

    \- The EPP packages have been so successful, that some now believe
    that a project "releasing when ever it wants to" does not mean
    anything (or, much) ... it only means something if EPP can release
    when ever it wants to.

      -
        \-- Similarly, it is hard for a project to "update" just their
        one component in an EPP package, for part technical, and part
        policy reasons.

<!-- end list -->

  - The EPP packages have been so successful, that "everyone" wants to
    be in an EPP package -- so much so, they are nearly a marketing
    tool.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \-- Off topic, maybe, but this is oddly parallel to early days,
        when "everyone wanted to be in the Platform" since that was the
        "main thing" at Eclipse, that everyone installed. Are we now
        seeing the same thing happen to EPP packages? Are non-EPP
        components second class citizens? That was never the intent. The
        EPP packages were meant to merely provide a better "out of the
        box" usability experience, oriented to certain audiences, but it
        was expected that users could and should still "customize" that
        by adding what ever other function they'd like.
        \-- The "Simultaneous Release" repository was intended (in part)
        to make it "easier to discover things" that were available,
        instead of having to "look all over the place".
          -
            \--- Probably several reasons why that's not working too
            well?
            \--- And now we also have "The Market Place" -- yet another
            place to look? Or, satisfying needs of a certain class of
            user? (I think the latter).
        \-- Should we avoid having too much in EPP packages? Or, put in
        as much as we can? \[Without usage statistics, it is impossible
        to know.\]
        \-- The "capabilities" mechanism in the Platform was also
        supposed to help make things easy to progressively discover, but
        it never caught on.

<!-- end list -->

  - Leaf versus Core: we currently do not have a good separation of
    "leaf" vs "core" component -- and perhaps this is not possible. It
    could be argued it is easier for a "pure leaf" component to
    update/release more frequently, than "core" components, since they
    would have less chance of breaking others in release train. But,
    they could, still break adopters (and in theory still break core
    components functionality, due to the nature of "plugins and OSGi".
    There are often "tangled" relationships making the distinction
    between "leaf" and "core" multi-faceted instead of a clear binary or
    hierarchical distinction.

##### Possible solutions

  - See Doug's [mailing list
    post](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02418.html)
    for one approach.

##### Constraints

  - Developers work load
  - IP work load (and work flow)
  - Marketing

##### What is required for (any) solution?

  - Improved automation

<!-- end list -->

  - More "self service"

<!-- end list -->

  - More automated testing

### high level outline of discussion

  - Seemed to be rough agreement that to "release more frequently" would
    be good ... for projects and perception.
  - Was discussion that "6 per year" too many ... "2 per year" not
    enough. So settled on "4 per year" as a working assumption.

:\* Did not really discuss WHEN they would be (which months), but (I
think) general agreement they should be regular, and predictable.

:\* Did not really discuss what to call them. We want to convey they are
true releases, but, releases with no subsequent service release.

  - "SR" name especially bad for perception, since it is not really just
    "service releases" any more.
  - But, even if we had 4 releases per year, some might put in "just
    service", some might put in new features, so adds some complexity on
    what and how to communicate (with each other, and community).
  - We would always (still) need "two streams" going ... one for "next
    immediate release", ... another stream for "long term work". (Or,
    may vary by project?)

:\* We did NOT discuss how to manage that ... would "long term work" be
merged into "release" stream at certain points?

  - We would (still) want something like a yearly "LTS Release".
  - We did say it would take at least 2 months for us to have a concrete
    proposal.

## Next Meeting

  - June 10, 2015 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting -- last meeting
    before release\!

## Reference

  -
    2013 EclipseCon face-to-face follow-through action items. For
    original meeting notes, see
    [March_24_2013](Planning_Council/March_24_2013.md)
    and for discussion leading to action items, see
    [April_10_2013](Planning_Council/April_10_2013.md).
    For last status update, see
    [May_8_2013](Planning_Council/May_8_2013.md).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Mars Wiki page](Mars "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")