## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, Nov 02, 2016, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2016&amp;month=11&amp;day=02&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Martin Lippert</p></td>
<td><p>Cloud (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Sam Davis</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Marc Khouzam</p></td>
<td><p>Ericsson</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Alexander Nyssen</p></td>
<td><p>itemis AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Nick Boldt</p></td>
<td><p>Red Hat (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Remi Schnekenburger</p></td>
<td><p>CEA List (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>EPP (appointed)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(has PMC rep; Dani Megert)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Gary Xue)</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(has/had PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Rajeev Dayal)</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X-R(2)</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - ?

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

## Neon maintenance

  - Are we done with these Neon.1 issues?

:\* Was "Neon.1 help" ever deployed? See .

::- *ACTION_ITEM: David to discuss with Fred to determine state and
make sure "what we know" is deployed.*

  -

      -
        \- ACTION is "done": updated bug, sent email. We'll see.

::- Then focus needs to be on  to make things easier for all future
releases.

:\* \[Wayne?\] Create New and Noteworthy for Neon.1 ()

  -

      -
        \- I assume we can "declare victory" but are "we" (Wayne?)
        prepared to do this for all future update releases (and primary
        releases)? Do we "need a documented process"?
        \- *ACTION_ITEM: Wayne to "close out" the current bug and
        document there (or, link to a wiki page) on what the process is
        moving forward. I bet it will involve PMI. :)*

<!-- end list -->

  - Any issues for Neon.2? Any new projects joining? I assume some will
    have new features? (But I do not know what they are. Does anyone?)

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- *no issues known for Neon.2*
        \- *ACTION_ITEM: Wayne to tweak PMI so that projects can
        document their new features for update releases. The
        "documentation" is primarily to improve communication to the
        community on "why they should care" about a particular release
        but there could be other consumers such as translators or
        tutorial writers may need react. (This is required, since
        "update releases" are no longer "maintenance releases".)*

## Oxygen Planning

### Java 9 Coordination \[Dani\]

  - After discussing what to do about Java 9 date changing, at a
    previous meeting, we also discussed the need for "Java 9
    coordination". Dani volunteered to be the "Java 9 Coordinator".
    Dani, is the following a fair summary of that work item:

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        1\) Find out which other projects plan to participate in a
        likely "July Java 9 update" (that is who is plans to "support
        Java 9 during development time"?)
        2\) Educate projects on how and WHEN to test their code
        **'running**' on Java 9. Ideally, as projects test on Java 9
        there will be a synergy where projects will educate each other
        on what was discovered and what others should look for (perhaps
        on a wiki, somewhere).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- *Dani's statement during meeting was consistent with the above,
    but he may be more specific once he "begins the work" (anticipated
    after Neon.2).*
    \- ''I have updated our Oxygen Plan document to now include a "[July
    Update
    Release](https://wiki.eclipse.org/Oxygen/Simultaneous_Release_Plan#Java_9_update_release_in_July)".

### Stop using Release Name?

  - There has been a lot of discussion about "giving up release name"
    and using "date" instead. See .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Further discussion in a previous meeting lead to the idea that
    one thing that is missing is what DO we call the **thing** we are
    releasing. "Eclipse Neon" seems too vague and definitely sounds like
    a different thing than "Eclipse Mars" (even if you add "release".
    Some quick suggestions were "Eclipse IDE - Neon Version" or similar
    (with dates, probably).
      -
        \- What's wrong with "Package"? \[dw: suggestion during 11/2
        meeting was"IDE" as a suffix of package name, or "IDE's" when
        needed generically, would be a good choice, which I think all
        agreed with.\]
    <!-- end list -->
      - \- Main ACTION ITEM is that we owe the community some official
        response on bug 493490 about what our official PC plan or
        response is. Is there agreement the following is our official
        position? If so, I will comment in .

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Much discussion again\! One of the best points I heard (from
        Alexander) was that "keeping the code name" allows projects to
        easily associate their version of with the yearly Simultaneous
        Release (or update release). But, as agreed, the name **by
        itself** does not have any meaning. While not strong agreement
        from everyone, it seemed to me the tendency was to favor adding
        "date" to code name to those places where end-users might be
        reading it and be confused (or, if not confused simply "get
        nothing from it") -- such as splash screen, about box, and the
        www.eclipse.org/downloads related pages. I asked for members to
        open bugs for specific cases, but in the meantime have tweaked
        our PC statement below:*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Summary of our position: decided that we can not "solve" this
        issue for Oxygen, but we can make incremental improvement. After
        that incremental improvement, we may have a better idea of the
        (or another) core problem to fix. As things are now, there is
        little chance of getting agreement on what the problem is or how
        to fix it. Currently, it is sort of like saying that "the
        problem is that things are confusing" -- too broad to fix all at
        once. We do not want to abandon the "code name" (at least for
        now) based on what we know. But there is agreement that \*by
        itself\* the codename has no meaning for casual users and is
        confusing because it is used in contexts that make it appear to
        have meaning.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Therefore, it is recommended where specific areas are confusing
        or meaningless that bugs be opened with a suggestion on how to
        improve by adding more information (typically the "releases
        date"). This includes web pages, splash screens, tutorials,
        instructions, announcements, press releases, urls, and anything
        else where "version" and "code name" and "contents of
        deliverable" are confusing or meaningless. While typically the
        date of the release should be added to the code name (such as
        "Neon.2 \[December, 2016\]") in some contexts it might be more
        appropriate to use the project version or build id. Also,
        improvements to "check for updates" should be made that give
        some indication that a "whole new stream" is available -- as the
        Installer currently does (and as other "products" do, such as
        Ubuntu, though there it is a user preference). But this will
        require someone to implement a solution in p2 UI. Also, instead
        of calling the delivered pre-packaged collections "packages"
        they should probably be called "IDEs".

### New levels of IP

  -
    \- Do we, as Planning Council, want to stipulate a participating
    project must be of "type B"? Or, do we not care? It may depend on
    "how labeled"? How do users or companies know? What do they expect?
    \- Wayne has opened bug  for comments.
      - In a previous meeting we decided our initial position should be
        "status quo" -- that is, to say it is required that each project
        in the Sim. release repository (and EPP packages) be of Type B.
        A few reasons given:
    <!-- end list -->
      -
        \- Adopters or users may be surprised to get a different legal
        process than what they are used to. This not only concerns
        adopters which build standalone commercial product, but some
        build features which prereq certain EPP packages are installed,
        so they direct their customers to install those packages first,
        and then install their features. Plus, while is it commonly
        believed "users don't care", many of those users work for
        corporations or government agencies which do care. For example,
        the corporation may have a policy that "it is ok to download and
        install things from Eclipse where all the code has been
        "reviewed as Type B". But those corporations might also tell
        their developers: "it is not ok to download open source in
        general and not even from Eclipse for Type A". It is unlikely to
        get corporations to state what their internal policies are since
        they would consider that confidential, so it just seems safest
        to go with "status quo" -- until we learn otherwise or have good
        reason to change.
        \- Some projects that want to use this new Type A policy, such
        as Orion, have always been "part of the Simultaneous Release",
        but not part of the Sim. Release repository. It is only the
        repository that we are saying it is required for, not the
        Release, per se.
        \- "How labeled" may make a difference. For example, as far as
        we know, it is still required that any EPP package that contains
        "incubating projects" label the whole EPP package as
        "incubating". Could there be something similar for "Type A" or
        "Type B" projects? And, the methods must be meaningfully named
        to be usable (by users); not just "Type A" and "Type B".
    <!-- end list -->
      - **New for Nov 2 meeting:** Nick Boldt has some new information
        and questions and a proposal that he posted to [PC mailing list
        message](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02666.html).
        Let's discuss\!
    :\* \[*Notes from Nick Boldt with slight editing from dw*\]
    ::- release records will be updated to include which level of due
    diligence (Type A or B).
    ::- Type A / Type B applies to third party libraries ONLY, not to
    the project's code itself.
    ::- Wayne \[EMO\] explicitly do NOT want Type A to be considered bad
    or stigmatized. \[dw: He made the point that "Type A is more than
    other foundations or open source groups do".\]
    ::- if a hypothetical company wants to invest resources to move a
    project from Type A back to B, they could do so \[dw: I do not think
    this is true, it is essentially Eclipse Foundation's resources that
    are "spent" on Type B checks of third party software\]; they could
    also do the additional provenance checking and never report back to
    the Foundation or the project.
    ::- **To be resolved:** where should license check style be placed
    in release records? As a new section on [release
    record](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/tools.thym/releases/2.0.0)
    or a new blurb in the [release
    doc](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/tools.thym/reviews/2.0.0-release-review)
    itself?
    ::- **To be resolved:** should projects use [plugins'
    about.html](https://github.com/eclipse/thym/blob/master/plugins/org.eclipse.thym.core/about.html),
    [features'
    license.html](https://github.com/eclipse/thym/blob/master/features/org.eclipse.thym.feature/license.html),
    or a [LICENSE
    file](https://github.com/eclipse/thym/blob/master/LICENSE) to
    identify the license check style?
    :\* \[Notes from David Williams -- overlap with Nick's, but since we
    were entering in parallel decide to enter both sets\]
      -

          -
            *Given the new information provided by Nick, and some by
            Wayne, it was decided "anyone can be in the Simultaneious
            Release repository regardless of IP method choosen". But,
            this was conditional on users and adopters being able to
            easily know which method applies -- in case it does matter
            to them. Suggestions were made to provide meaningful names
            (other than "Type A and Type B") and to provide the
            information in something like the about.html file. We all
            agreed with Wayne that it should not be part of a package
            name or bundle id, etc. Just something more "self
            documenting" than the "release record" (Wayne's currently
            planning on providing that).*

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Wayne did ask for "specifics" on "who needs to know?". For
        examples, "which adopters would do their own extra IP review for
        Type A bundles or who would "not be allowed to use it". I
        pointed out it is very unlikely that a bank or major
        coroporation would share that openly since they might consider
        such "internal product decisions" confidential and/or a
        competetive edge. I do think Stephan Merker implied that SAP
        needs this in a previous meeting (but they were not represented
        a today's meeting on 11/2). So, Stephan, feel free to bring the
        topic up in December's meeting or comment in  if you can.*

### Potential new requirement

  - Should the ability to update from yearly release to yearly release
    be a 'requirement'?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        **ACTION ITEM** from 6/8 meeting. Doug volunteered to "take up"
        this item to better specify "what does it mean" and "what will
        it take" to update across major releases. After last meeting,
        Doug, mentioned he thinks this is a UI issue and he would take
        it up with the UI task force. I do not think it is only a UI
        issue, but from our point of view, more a matter of what we
        expect projects to do differently. As I have listed before:

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        What would this take? Such as,
          -
            features can never be removed but can be replaced with some
            form of transition. See  and .
            Preferences, views, etc. have to "migrate" (if their ID
            changes)?
            What testing would projects have to do?
            What is the effect on commercial products? That is, will
            their customers get sufficient information that they "...
            can not upgrade without voiding their warranty", so to
            speak?
            Have we ever had a case where year-to-year updates worked?
            (For everything.)
              -
                For Neon, it was the change in package layouts. (Hence
                we backed-off having a "streamless URL".)
                For Luna? it was the change in MacOS layouts
                For Mars? it was the Window executable could not be
                updated. (Now it can be, as long as it is named exactly
                'eclipse.exe').
            Eventually, I assume we would want a built-in stream-less
            URL. I am assuming for Oxygen we do want to have a
            stream-less URL available, but not built in, to enable
            testing the update from Neon to Oxygen. (See )

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \-*After a brief discusion, it was decided this should not be a
    **requirement** though we should encourage projects to test that
    scenerio and keep track of issues.*
    \-*Doug surprised us all saying current "root features" do not work
    as expected. That items can to be removed or added? Doug, please
    clarify in  what issues you are seeing.*

### Release Policy vs. Release mechanics

  - For details, see .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    In Neon M6 we changed to have (nearly) all features to be "root
    features.
    Now what? That is, can we "stop" adding "reference repositories" via
    feature p2.inf files?
    Can we make an official policy on "off scheduled fixes" (as we are
    considering for MPC)?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        \- *Did not discuss at 11/2 meeting*

## New Business

  - ?

## Next Meeting

  - December 7, 2016 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting

## Reference

  -
    Draft [Eclipse Project Branding
    Requirements](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/trademarks.php)
    (Wayne)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Neon Wiki page](Neon "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")