## Logistics

|                |                                                                                                                                                            |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council Conference Call**                                                                                                                       |
| Date & Time:   | Wednesday, November 09, 2011, at [1200 Eastern](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2011&month=11&day=09&hour=12&min=0&sec=0&p1=179) |
| Dial-in:       | For the call-in numbers, see the "Project Review" number on [Foundation Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.       |

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>??</p></td>
<td><p>?TPTP? (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Mik Kersten</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo)</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Jesse McConnell</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC) (appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Stefan Daume</p></td>
<td><p>Cloudsmith Inc.(Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Kaloyan Raev</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Pascal Rapicault</p></td>
<td><p>Sonatype (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Christian Kurzke</p></td>
<td><p>Motorola (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Achim Loerke</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Appointed</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
we have not heard from in a year or so, and have been unable to convince
to participate. Those members can become active again at any time.
Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Any?

*Congratulations on a great EclipseCon Europe\!*

## Indigo SR2

  - Anything?

*Nothing*

## Juno Plan and Requirements

### M3

  - Any issues?

*none*

### Requirements

Review
[Requirements](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements "wikilink") for
substance and wording. In particular:

*An overall suggestion was to add summary at top with links to "new this
year" items*

#### The three new major headings.

Do they make it clear some are A. "normal" requirements (just needed
earlier), B. some are required items to be in common repo, and C. some
are essentially optional, though considered required for good adoption.

''Suggestions: ''

  -
    ''In first one, "...but early" sounds vague, can it be reworded?
    More concrete? ''
      -
        *May be hard, since two of the 4 are LOTS earlier (M4), and two
        of them are 2 to 4 weeks earlier than usual*
        *Maybe just say "... but earlier than usual" ... plus add
        deadlines to headings.*

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *In third one, "... (but optional)" sounds too optional (like, don't
    even read this section). Will leave out of heading and clarify in
    first paragraph*

#### . 4 new items, all marked (currently) with "\[added 10/18/2011\]"

A. Source build. (this turned out to be wordier than I'd like ...
suggestions welcome ... is it worth having?)

*This seemed redundant to most, especially if we have the "make source
easy to get from repository" item. I removed the item and closed  as
wontfix.*

B. Target Environments (Platforms and Java Levels). I tried to add some
general advice, to especially help new projects, but no substantial "new
work" ... just to encourage teams to think through and document what
they support.

*General agreement that most projects don't specify anything in this
part of "standard plan", but should, but exactly what they specify is up
to them and their community of users and adopters (which I think is
fairly clear in current write-up, but will clarify).*

*Some parts of it are a little wordy, such as doesn't need to be a
tutorial on effects of changing Java levels. Will shorten/simplify it.
(Some concern the document as a whole is getting too long ... both looks
like a lot, and takes a long time to read.*

C. Getting source from repositories. I'd like to make it "required" to
use Eclipse-SourceReference, but there was some discussion on
cross-project list that not everyone liked that idea. So, tried to word
so that "its a good idea, and if you don't use Eclipse-SourceReference,
you should provide some other easy way".

*Needs work. Need to clarify purpose. Is it to improve workflow, so
contributors can easily provide patches? Is it so adopters IP staff can
get a copy of all source used in a build? Or, both? Larger question is
if it is implementable. Currently there are no commonly used tools to
created team project sets (though, there are ant scripts around that do
it, such as Orbit). Currently, an Eclipse-SourceReference for GIT is not
implemented and no clear commitment to do it, despite being a regression
in available functionality, see .*

D. Provide archived p2 repositories. Again, I personally think this
should be "required", but am not positive how many other projects do
this already (I know many many do), and can not say for sure we would
use them in the aggregation builds for Juno, so not sure it should be
"required" this year ... but, it would go a long way towards having
"reproducible aggregation builds". Plus, my speculative guess is,
something like archived repos might be required for Eclipse LTS (Long
Term Support), both to have something to depend on to re-create some
packages, but more so, to be sure there is a concrete deliverable from a
build against which future builds could be compared.

*Ending up removing. Even though some projects and adopters use/need
these, there was concern that not all builders (je.g. Tycho) could
easily produce or consume them). It is counter to some people's view
that there be only a few repos and while contents change, the repo
location does not.*

*It was said it was thought to be a "good idea" to produce these repos
... all the mature projects already do ... but a) we should we be
concerned too much about simply documenting good ideas and b) we do not
know what the LTS solution is so unclear we can justify it for that
reason. (Not to mention, the Planning Council is not responsible for
LTS, so while ok to make things easier if/when needed, there is no
reason to jump the gun, were some views discussed). So, unless ever
needed by the release train itself, is unlikely to ever be required.*

#### Other requirements?

  - I added 2 more "new" ones, marked with \[11/09/2011\]. We won't
    "settle" these today, since obviously no time to review completely
    with PMCs, members, etc., but hope to introduce them and discuss a
    little.

A.
[SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements\#Unit_Tests](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements#Unit_Tests "wikilink")

'' dup ''

B.
[SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements\#Compatibility_with_Previous_Releases](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements#Compatibility_with_Previous_Releases "wikilink")

'' no time to discuss''

#### Other clarifications?

'' no time to discuss existing requirements to see if improvement can be
made''

  - Comments after the meeting: The following notes were posted to
    planning list after meeting, which I copy here, to capture more
    easily with other items discussed, and document the "conclusion" or
    if other discussion needed.

... the list of 40+ "requirements" is pretty daunting for new projects
coming to the train (even if half of them are optional). I think we
should take any opportunity we can to cut this down or combine entries.
I read through the document this morning and the following came to mind:

1\) There are five items about localization: "Message Bundles", "Support
Translations", "Excel in NL Support", "Test Localization" and "Enable
Use With All Languages". We could probably combine these into a single
"Localization" bullet point that contains all the details. We can leave
it alone if people think it is helpful but I think having the
information in one place would streamline it. Some of the specific
technology choices will really vary across projects anyway.

*Good idea* I grouped them under a common heading for now, but left as
separate items. We can discuss if a paragraph would be better ... but
... somehow they seem like "separate activities" to me. I would like to
keep the "NL Translation" items separate from the "NL Enablement" since
I think the later effects nearly everyone (even runtimes) whereas the
former would not be applicable to any projects with no UI ... if there
are any. ''

2\) Retention Policy - this could just be a sentence on the "Provide p2
repository" entry.

*Not sure ... are p2 repositories the only thing we retain? I know we in
webtools say a lot more than that, see [WTP Retention
Policy](WTP/Retention_Policy "wikilink").*

3\) Metrics. Do projects really do this? Is it just part of the release
review documentation? One option here is just to submit your git
repository to <http://ohloh.net> and let it produce your project stats.
dash.eclipse.org, and Wayne's fancy new project pages also provide some
stats.

''Gone. (I once had high hopes of doing more here ... but, with nothing
concrete, it is merely a good idea). ''

4\) Optimization. I'm not really sure what this means. It just provides
a link to a list of available p2 ant tasks. The "Provide p2 repository"
entry already says repositories need to be conditioned and packed. What
other optimization does this refer to?

'' Good point, I removed as an "items" but did move a form of the
sentence to the p2 repository section.''

### Checklist (aka tracker)

Investigate if checklist can be improved and who can do it.

*Did not have time to discuss*

### Other business

Any discussion or suggestions of ["delegation
policy"](Simultaneous_Release_Roles#Planning_Council "wikilink").

*It was agreed it was a "good idea" to state the policy (and allow
delegation).*

## Next Meeting

  - [November_23_2011](November_23_2011.md)
    (a "extra" meeting, to be sure everyone has a chance to voice their
    opinions about requirements document).

## Reference

  -
    [Juno Wiki page](Juno "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Indigo
    retrospective](Indigo_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")