|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council In-Person Meeting @ EclipseWorld 2008**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Date & Time:   | Monday [Oct 27, 2008](Oct_27,_2008 "wikilink") from 8:00 am to 5:00 pm [Google calendar event](http://www.google.com/calendar/event?action=VIEW&eid=bW84N2d1NXEwZGIxdGoxZHBwMTViMHRoY2MgZWNsaXBzZS5vcmctcGxhbm5pbmctY291bmNpbEBlY2xpcHNlLm9yZw&tok=NTIjZ2NoczdubTRudnBtODM3NDY5ZGRqOXRqbGtAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbTExOGU1ZTE3NmNkNzIwZjg2MmNiOWE2NGJjM2NlOTUwYzIxM2Y1Zjg&ctz=America%2FNew_York&hl=en&gsessionid=xHBllKy_75-7I7GWbC9MVw) |
| Place:         | [Hyatt Regency Reston](https://resweb.passkey.com/Resweb.do?mode=welcome_ei_new&eventID=69096)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |

## Attendees

  - Richard Gronback
  - David Williams
  - Pat Huff
  - Anthony Hunter
  - Markus Knauer
  - Oliver E Cole
  - Bjorn Freeman-Benson
  - Neil Hauge

### Regrets

  - Oisin Hurley
  - John Duimovich
  - Karsten Schmidt
  - Doug Gaff

## Topics

  - Galileo [Requirements for
    Participation](Galileo_Simultaneous_Release#Requirements_For_Participation "wikilink")
    - Finalize list
      - The list was refined and agreed upon. Each will be added to
        Bugzilla under the new Eclipse Foundation \> Simultaneous
        Release \> Galileo component with the appropriate priority (P1 =
        must-do, P2 = should-do) and target milestone. A clone of each
        bug will be created for each participating project with a
        dependency on the master bug to allow for reporting.
  - Discuss project plan format, content, and ownership (see details
    below)
      - The consensus was to leave the Galileo plan as a high-level
        document with rollup in the form of links to participating
        Galileo project plans, and include bugzilla queries for the
        entries listed above. Bjorn's report for non-Galileo projects
        need to be addressed by individual PMCs to ensure each project
        provides a plan, as the Planning Council also agreed this is an
        acceptable requirement for each project for any release or
        continuation review.
  - Create planning section of the Roadmap to present to the Board at
    December meeting, using input from individual [Project
    Plans](Development_Resources/Project_Plan "wikilink") per
    [this](http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg01422.html).
      - As mentioned above, the plan will be provided in the form of the
        now-standard plan.xml format with Galileo participation
        requirement Bugzilla queries to track progress.
  - Plan
    [status](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/temporary/project-plans-status-report.php)
    per project. Should plans be required by M3 as a train must-do?
      - Added as a requirement, though M4 was agreed as the timeframe.
  - Galileo participation status
      - Each project should declare intent with Planning Council
        representatives so that each can have its tracking Bugzillas
        created and be added to the overall project plan. Each project
        or PMC to decide on what level of granularity they'd like to
        have presented on the rollup plan.
  - Galileo deliverables (EPP packages, update site, all-in-one, etc.)
      - It was agreed that the product-based build proposed be used as
        the basis, which provides p2 metadata and content repositories
        and unified artifact location for all participants. The actual
        product produced will not be provided as a downloadable to all,
        though certain requests may be satisfied on a case-by-case
        basis.
      - EPP packages will be provided, though likely based on .product
        files as well.
      - The [installer (RAP-based p2
        director)](http://build.eclipse.org/eppwizard/go%7Ccustom) will
        be promoted, with categories to be aligned with those presented
        in the main Galileo repository. This requires that only Galileo
        train participants are allowed to be made available in this
        custom installer. The initial proposed structure of categories
        is found below, with an additional SDK site/categorization to
        also be provided.
  - Email from Babel team re: gray box testing of strings
      - It was decided that the testing will be a should-do item, though
        Babel participation is a must-do for train projects.
  - PC update to members on Nov. 17th before ESE (wwdi?)
      - Bjorn agreed to provide the update with material provided by
        Rich
  - PC meeting 12/10, the day before the plenary in San Francisco...
    needed?
      - It was agreed that an in-person meeting in December would not be
        required, as it's unlikely we'll need more than calls in the
        near future, and also as a consequence of tightening travel
        budgets
  - TPTP "POG" initiative
      - Advised TPTP broadcast to committer list their request for
        participation on helping to improve the profiler, and to perhaps
        consider those open bugs that have the performance keyword for
        potential contributors.
  - SDK composition
      - It was agreed that some guidelines be provided to bring
        consistency in the way each project packages SDKs are necessary.
        To being, a basic wiki page with a list of the current issues
        and recommendations for a solution to begin the discussion. Once
        a consensus is reached, an approach to providing an SDK site to
        complement the end-user tooling site for Galileo consumption can
        move forward.

### Project Plan Discussion

From Jeff's email:

  - **What is the intended use/audience of these plans?** In my projects
    we have always attempted to address the consuming community and
    attempted to paint a general picture of the kinds of significant new
    directions, functions, etc that are on the table for the next
    release. In looking over the DSDP and DASH plans I was struck by how
    detailed they are. There are a great many items (bug reports)
    listed. Given the volume and the format (many entries starting with
    the same \[tag\]), the document is not very consumable IMHO. People
    can find out what is going to be worked on in any given milestone by
    doing a query but that is raw information, not a considered and
    crafted plan.

<!-- end list -->

  - **What should the community expectations be wrt the plans
    changing?** Our plans have always changed say 4 times as the dev
    cycle goes on. This IMHO a positive attribute as it more accurately
    reflects reality as reality unfolds. However, where the plan is
    composed of bug queries for particular \[tag\]s (or the like) there
    appears to be a danger of anyone in the community unknowingly
    putting something on the public plan simply by putting \[tag\] in
    the summary line. Change is good but too much churn and fluidity
    undermines confidence.

<!-- end list -->

  - To address the above two concerns I propose that we explicitly state
    a best practice for project teams to use the "plan" keyword (or any
    other explicit and relatively exclusive marking mechanism) to
    clearly and explictly mark bug reports as being for the plan.
    Following this approach we would likely end up with fewer plan items
    and less churn. Both changes would increase the consumability of and
    confidence in the project plans.

<!-- end list -->

  - **What do we think plan readers want to see and should expect?** I
    saw some discussion about having more text related to the plan items
    in the plan itself but no real conclusion. Currently the rendering
    shows only the summary (I suppose that is a conclusion :-). Again,
    from a consumability point of view this is less than optimal. It
    requires a lot of clicking and makes it hard to see the big picture.
    I've been to countless meetings where people sit down with a printed
    copy of the plan and talk about the different items. If all the real
    content is had only by following a link, ... In part this is a
    rendering question but from a best practice point of view, what do
    we think plan readers want to see and should expect? If you walk up
    to a project about which you know little, what do you expect from
    their plan document? I expect to see some sort of digested form of
    the raw information that tells me the intent, direction, challenges
    and what problem is being addressed. Imagine trying to get funding
    based only on your plan document. Again, we can have links to all
    the gory details. Make the simple thing simple and the hard things
    possible...

<!-- end list -->

  - **Should it be easy or hard to create a plan document?** (sucker
    question) The main [plan wiki
    page](Development_Resources/Project_Plan "wikilink") highlights a
    plan template designed for "little HTML" and implies that the "lost
    of HTML" approach is for legacy folks. From a best practice point of
    view, should plan authors be producing rich plans or machine
    generated queries? I guess my point here is that while people are
    free to choose which xml tagging scheme they use, we should be
    encouraging them to create good looking, easy to read plans. Guiding
    them towards archane XML namespace markup and "prefix"ing is likely
    to make crafting such a plan appear unattractively hard. I suggest
    that we reorient the main plan page to guide folks through the
    simple path first with off-shoots for the non-XML-averse folks.

<!-- end list -->

  - These issues/questions were discussed in general, with no obvious
    problems identified. We're going to deliver a basic plan (see above)
    until suggestions for improvement are presented by consumers.

## Galileo Categories

Some discussion on improving/simplifying the category list for Galileo
resulted in the following proposed structure. A separate SDK structure
will be provided as well. Note that elements not found within categories
are either expected to appear in the default uncategorized category, or
be found using the filter on the dialog. Also, changing the view to
by-name or by-site may facilitate finding additional features. Sections
are used to indicate the web-based UI division of categories.

Note that this is a basic outline and still needs to be
refined/completed.

### Wizard page \#1

  - Programming Languages
      - Java
      - C/C++
      - JavaScript
      - Ruby, etc.
  - Web Development
      - HTML/CSS/XML
      - JavaScript
      - JavaEE
      - RAP
      - STP elements

### Wizard page \#2

  - Database Development
      - DTP elements
  - Modeling
      - UML
      - DSL Toolkit
      - BPMN
      - SCA
      - etc.
  - Testing and Performance
      - Profiling
      - etc.
  - Device Development
      - DSDP elements

### Wizard page \#3

  - Collaboration
      - ECF
      - Mylyn
      - CVS
      - SVN
  - Tools & Goodies
      - Buckminster
      - Remote Access
      - UDC
      - BIRT
      - Runtime elements

## Other Discussion Items

  - Regarding the naming of subsequent release trains, it was proposed
    and accepted that the PC provide a short list of names to be decided
    in some manner during EclipseCon. The only concern is that the
    naming process should not serve as too much of a distraction from
    the release in progress. The current short list includes: Io and
    Triton
  - It was suggested that a ramp-down policy element be added to the
    current plan format
  - The consumption of Orbit bundles was discussed, as although many
    projects utilize bundles, they often do it in different ways (e.g.
    with dedicated feature, with 3rd party feature, with no feature). An
    approach should be recommended and added to future release train
    participation requirements.
  - On the discussion of a single all-in-one Galileo download, the
    bandwidth issue was raised and led to the recommendation that
    perhaps eclipse.org servers should limit download access by allowing
    only "Friends of Eclipse" access, leaving mirrors to service the
    majority of the community.

## Action Items

  - Create bugzillas for use in plan administration (Bjorn)
  - Invite Babel project to next PC call to discuss project status and
    perhaps demonstrate UI testing procedure (Rich)
  - Provide PC update material for presentation at members meeting prior
    to ESE (Rich)
  - ~~Create a wiki to begin discussion on SDK composition and
    delivery~~ (Rich) [SDK Composition](SDK_Composition "wikilink")
  - Organize a mechanism to vote on train name during EclipseCon,
    selected from PC-provided short list (Bjorn)
  - ~~Remove galileo flag queries from the current plan.xml for
    Galileo~~ (Rich)
  - Send list of projects as desired to be listed on Galileo for linking
    to individual plans (which may then link to plans), or better yet,
    apply patch to plan.xml found on this
    [bug](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=250840) (All)

## Additional Topics

  - IP process improvement discussion with Janet Campbell - ?

## Reminders

  - December 10-11, 2008 - plenary session with Board

## Action Items

  - TBD