## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, October 2, 2013, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2013&amp;month=10&amp;day=02&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992 (new number), 1-877-369-7806 (old number)</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Steffen Pingel</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Markus Tiede</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Rajeev Dayal</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - EclipseCon 2014 Submission system is now open
    <http://www.eclipsecon.org/na2014/cfp>

## Kepler SR2

  - Will re-start aggregation builds near end of year (unless requested
    earlier)

*Was suggested or requested to "leave enabled" and even build
periodically, say, once a week, just to give opportunity for early
testing for those that desire or need that.*

## Luna Planning

  - Topics for possible discussion:

:\* Change policy on disabling all in M1 to require "actively joining"?

::\* Related to Wayne's proposal on new "how to join" method:
<http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02190.html>

  -

      -
        Key aspects:
          -
            Projects to send note to cross-project list. (How to handle
            "individual projects" vs. those that release as a "group",
            e.g. WTP?, Platform?)
            Planning Council (or, Wayne) enters their "entry" and +n
            date in database.
            Deadline? M4 seems "late" for those already in? We've said
            "once in, always in". Hence, how does this interact with
            "disabling in aggregation"?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    ''General agreement, though some questions still to work out ... ''
    Action items:
    Wayne will send note to Cross-project "in a day or two". For Luna,
    he will start with initial data from b3aggrcon files that have had
    contributions enabled.
      -
        ''Wayne mentioned only two thirds of "last years projects" have
        responded to list ... so a) reps should remind their
        projects/PMCs to re-join explicitly (or, be explicit, if not)
        and b) Wayne will modify "participating projects" page to also
        list those that haven't said, yet.
    ''DW to open 2 bugs: ''
      -
        ''1) What are best "deadlines", in relation to b3aggrcon files.
        The idea would be be something like "for those already in train,
        they would "stay enabled" until after M1", then if had not been
        heard from on cross-project list, they would be disabled. If not
        heard by end of M3, they would be removed (since M4 is deadline
        to be "in", even for new comers). ''
          -
            Done. See . I actually changed my mind and put M2 as
            deadline, based on this year's experience that by M2, the
            previous year's maintenance release (SR1) should be done, so
            really little excuse after that, not to have announced and
            be planning next years release).
        *2) open (or find, and change priority of existing bug), that
        b3aggrcon files would be changed to conform to "project name"
        pattern.*
          -
            Done. See .

:\* Should we revisit the policy about "release one month prior to SR"?

::\* How can (or should) we better capture what new features are in an
SR for adopters awareness?

  -

      -
        *There was agreement "we needed something", but flexible on
        exactly what.*
        *Doug took action item of working on wording of new policy for
        Planning Council consideration and approval ... it'd be
        something like "feature freeze by (and in) RC1 and Release
        Review Materials complete by RC1". Release Materials would
        include "new feature" descriptions for adopters, so that'd be
        covered.*

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Doug proposed [this wording on mailing
    list](http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02194.html):*
    :\*'' First major releases not allowed. Projects must maintain
    backwards compatibility with the release.''
    :\*'' Projects must follow the ramp down schedule for the SR. The
    bits for the release must be made available at RC1 and can not be
    introduced later than that. Bug fixes of course can be made during
    the release candidate cycle.''
    :\*'' Release review material must be available to the community by
    RC1 to document the changes and new features in the release.''

<!-- end list -->

  -
    '' We will allow one month for members to review with projects and
    strategic members to be sure it "fits" with internal processes, etc,
    but seems reasonably balanced. This would replace or be incorporated
    into a rewrite of our [current
    policy](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_FAQ#Can_a_new_project_or_feature_join_a_Simultaneous_Service_Release_.28SR1_or_SR2.29.3F "wikilink").''

## On going discussions

\[Can we turn this into an action item, owned by someone? Otherwise,
will remove from "on going discussion".\]

  - Do we need, or how can we help enable, "more frequent releases"?
    Including what, exactly, that means. Such as, currently projects can
    release whenever they want, but the issue seemed to be on EPP
    packages and/or "prime real estate" of "Eclipse Foundations
    Downloads" page?

*Decided we'd remove as "on going discussion" ... that we've done all we
can as Planning Council ... but please raise topic again if
projects/members have any concrete suggestions/concerns.*

## Progress on Action Items

  - Editing of "Requirements Document"? (Dani and Neil)
      - See current draft of proposed changes
        [SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements_PROPOSED](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements_PROPOSED "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        '' Dani and Neil to update more in a couple of weeks and keep us
        posted on mailing list. The goal is to have "yay or nay" version
        by next meeting.''

<!-- end list -->

  - GSoC project for "Development Channel"? (Wayne)

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        '' While GSoC is over, for a year, Wayne will at least recall
        history and open a bug for this.''.

<!-- end list -->

  - Improved "aggregator examples/doc". (dw -- no progress).
  - \[Orbit plan "by end of August". (dw -- no progress -- will likely
    be late, still "in October")\]
  - Need to improve [Luna](Luna "wikilink") wiki page (dw) **Done.**
    Updated categories of "standard" documents. Updated some FAQs.
    Pointed "SimRel" to "Luna".
  - Complete Google Calendar. (dw)
  - Compute Luna SR dates. (dw)

## Kepler Retrospective

For reference, see
[Juno_retrospective](Planning_Council/Juno_retrospective.md).

  - what worked:

<!-- end list -->

  - what could be better:

<!-- end list -->

  -
    ''For both categories, it was felt most had "already been said" (in
    our on going meetings or previous retrospectives). ''

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *But one new concern was brought up: That "release engineering" is
    not a very "diverse team" (Markus and David) ... and the concern was
    "what do we do if they stop doing it". While no one volunteered to
    help :) it was taken as a valid point to document. Briefly discussed
    "getting help from Eclipse Foundation", but at same time we wanted
    it to remain a "community driven" activity in general ... that is,
    those that have a vested interest in producing and consuming the
    release should be "in charge" ... and not become a "corporate
    activity". But, perhaps there could be some help with tools, and
    similar from Eclipse Foundation? Should b3 aggregator or EPP build
    become part of "CBI project"? At a minimum, need to make sure some
    of the process and mechanics are well documented so others could
    "take over" when necessary.*

## Next Meeting

  - November 6, 2013 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting

## Reference

  -
    EclipseCon face-to-face follow-through action items. For original
    meeting notes, see
    [March_24_2013](Planning_Council/March_24_2013.md)
    and for discussion leading to action items, see
    [April_10_2013](Planning_Council/April_10_2013.md).
    For last status update, see
    [May_8_2013](Planning_Council/May_8_2013.md).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Luna Wiki page](Luna "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Kepler Wiki page](Kepler "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Juno
    retrospective](Juno_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")