## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, Oct 05, 2016, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2016&amp;month=06&amp;day=08&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Martin Lippert</p></td>
<td><p>Cloud (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Sam Davis</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Fred Gurr did attend (again)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Marc Khouzam</p></td>
<td><p>Ericsson</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Alexander Nyssen</p></td>
<td><p>itemis AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Nick Boldt</p></td>
<td><p>Red Hat (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Remi Schnekenburger</p></td>
<td><p>CEA List (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>EPP (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(has PMC rep; Dani Megert)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Gary Xue)</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(has/had PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Rajeev Dayal)</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X-R(2)</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - ?

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

## Neon maintenance

  - Do we need a "rebuild" for ? Will also include . See also  where I
    would like to try a "new" method of creating "off-schedule" fixes to
    Sim. Release Repo.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    See also the [message to cross-project
    list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg13693.html).
    ~~- BUT, there has been no official request via Technology PMC or
    their Planning rep.~~
    A [formal
    request](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02650.html)
    has been made -- with [one
    vote](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02651.html)
    so far -- can someone give a second? Any objections?

*Ian Bull did "officially vote yes". No objections raised. So we will do
the respin. Anticipate package to be "done by Monday" and "made
available by Tuesday".*

  - Are we done with these?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Will soon need a Neon.1 info center ()
      -
        Such as, Eclipse platform did change some docs, but they did not
        respond or list them in . (See  for list of Platform doc
        changes.)
        A related topic: anyone see an issue with implementing an
        automatic process to find bundles with "toc" extension in
        plugin.xml and using that as our "help input"? See
    \- \[Wayne?\] Create New and Noteworthy for Neon.1 ()

*No overall conclusion about "done or not" (Dani said probably just an
oversite, in their case).* *No one could think of any problem with
implementing . Perhaps "now", for list of Neon.1 bundles would be a good
start? We could even use the output in existing bug, even though
eventually would like improved code.* *Wayne not present to say if New
and Noteworthy "done".*

## Oxygen Planning

  - There has been a lot of discussion about "giving up release name"
    and using "date" instead. See .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Further discussion in the meeting lead to the idea that one thing
    that is missing is what DO we call the "thing" we are releasing.
    "Eclipse Neon" seems too vague and definitely sounds like a
    different thing than "Eclipse Mars" (even if you add "release". Some
    quick suggestions were "Eclipse IDE - Neon Version" or similar (with
    dates, probably).
      - \- ~~ACTION ITEM: Doug said he would try to re-ignite the
        discussion via blog or similar.~~
      - \- Main point is that we owe the community some response on bug
        493490 about what our plan will be.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *During \[previous\] meeting, it was decided that we can not "solve"
    for Oxygen, but we can probably make incremental improvement. After
    that incremental improvement, we may have a better idea of the core
    problem to fix. As things are now, there is little chance of getting
    agreement on what the problem is or how to fix it. It is sort of
    like now the problem is "things are confusing" -- a little too broad
    to fix all at once. I will comment in  that we don't want to abandon
    the name, but that in general, any place the "code name" is used
    there needs to be more information, such as version or date or build
    id (depending on context). Also, I think that "check for update"
    should give some indication that a "whole new stream" is available
    -- as the Installer currently does.*
    *No new discussion in 10/5 meeting.*

<!-- end list -->

  - A "new business" item that we did not have time to discuss in
    previous meetings was about the impact of the new levels of IP. Do
    we, as Planning Council, want to stipulate a participating project
    must be of "type B"? Or, do we not care? It may depend on "how
    labelled"? But he will open a bug and/or we will discuss at the next
    meeting. See and comment in .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Spent a long time discussing this. Mostly asking questions where no
    one knew the answer. Such as "how labelled?"*
    *When asked "who wants this" the only answer known was "web
    projects" such as Orion, where they do not necessarily have
    detailed, advance knowledge of "which jars, exactly, might be pulled
    in as they run". It was also believed that perhaps "new projects"
    wanted this, to get a quick start, but we were not positive about
    that.*
    *While the PC is open to further discussion and a different
    decision, we believe our initial position should be "status quo" --
    that is, to say it is required that each project in the Sim. release
    repository (and EPP packages) be of Type B.*
      -
        ''A few reasons given: ''
          -
            *- Adopters or users may be surprised to get a different
            legal process than what they are used to. This not only
            concerns adopters which build stand alone commercial
            product, but some build features which prereq certain EPP
            packages are installed, so they direct their customers to
            install those packages first, and then install their
            features. Plus, while is it commonly believed "users don't
            care", many of those users work for corporations or
            government agencies which may care. For example, the
            corporation may have a policy that "it is ok to download and
            install things from Eclipse" (because they know all the code
            has been "reviewed as Type B") where as the corporations
            might not say that for "Type A". It is unlikely to get
            corporations to state what their internal policies are,
            since they would consider that confidential, so it just
            seems safest to go with "status quo" -- until we learn
            otherwise or have good reason to change.*
            *- Some projects that want to use this new Type A policy,
            such as Orion, have always been "part of the Simultaneous
            Release", but not part of the Sim. Release repository. It is
            only the repository that we are saying it is required for,
            not the Release, per se.*
            *- Some obvious things that would change are minds is if
            half the projects in Sim. Release repo (especially those
            that have a lot of dependants in the repo) were to say they
            are always going to be of Type A. So we still need to
            clarify who plans to use this new process.*
            *- "How labelled" may make a difference. For example, as far
            as we know, it is still required that any EPP package that
            contains "incubating projects" label the whole EPP package
            as "incubating". Could there be something similar for "Type
            A" or "Type B" projects?*

<!-- end list -->

  - Should the ability to update from yearly release to yearly release
    be a 'requirement'?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        **ACTION ITEM** from 6/8 meeting. Doug volunteered to "take up"
        this item to better specify "what does it mean" and "what will
        it take" to update across major releases. \[Doug, it is up to
        you, but I suggest you form a small team of like 3 people, such
        as Ian and Dani or, others who know some of the technical
        issues, to help if they are able and willing.\] The goal being
        just a more specific statement of what it means, and what
        projects have to do differently for Oxygen. That is, we don't
        need to reach Nirvana in one release cycle.''

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        What would this take? Such as,
          -
            features can never be removed but are replaced and
            transitioned?
            I am assuming for Oxygen we want have a "streamless URL"
            available (not built in) to make it easier for some to start
            testing the update from Neon to Oxygen. (See )
            Preferences, views, etc. have to "migrate" (if their ID
            changes)?
            What testing would projects have to do?
            What is the effect on commercial products? That is, will
            users get sufficient information that they "... can not
            upgrade without voiding their warranty", so to speak?
            Have we ever had a case where year-to-year updates worked?
              -
                For Neon, it was the change in package layouts. (Hence
                we backed-off having a "streamless URL".)
                For Luna? it was the change in MacOS layouts
                For Mars? it was the Window executable would not be
                updated. (Now it can be, as long as it is named
                "eclipse.exe").

<!-- end list -->

  - Release Policy vs. Release mechanics. This is being tracked in .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    In Neon M6 we changed to have (nearly) all features to be "root
    features.
    Now what? That is, can we "stop" adding "reference repositories" via
    feature p2.inf files?
    Can we make an official policy on "off scheduled fixes" (as we are
    considering for MPC)?

## New Business

  - Discuss how to deal with Java 9 being moved to July 2017 \[Dani\]

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *-This was a hot topic during the meeting. It was clear we did not
    want to change our June Release (since, after all, the July date is
    not exactly guaranteed). Instead we will come out with a quick "July
    update" in addition to the already planned September update. That
    was easy enough, but then asking "what does this mean" made it clear
    that we needed a "Java 9 Coordinator". Dani graciously agreed to
    take on that role. The July update means -- at least -- that JDT and
    any related platform component will update (which primarily means to
    make the "BETA Java 9 Patches" be part of the deliverables instead
    of patched in).*
    *-There are two other important aspects to coordinate, though.
    First: who else has "Java 9 changes" that might be required. It was
    thought that projects such as Webtools might (such as to "run a
    server using Java 9", or their "faceted projects" may require a new
    Java 9 type). Do they plan/desire to be part of the July update? Or
    will they do something later? Second: does the "July update" imply
    all the EPP packages (and code in the repository) **run** on Java 9?
    If nothing else, projects will need to make sure they use no
    "internals" which will no longer be available in Java 9. (i.e. run
    jdeps, etc.) Also, some Eclipse projects (such as e(fx)clipse, may
    need to make sure the "module definitions" suit their runtime (or,
    are available, etc.)). Worse, some rules about reflection and class
    loading may be changing (which might impact a lot of old third party
    code, some of which does a lot of custom class-loading and lots of
    reflection or inspection).*
    *-So, as "Java 9 coordinator" Dani's task will be to 1) Find out
    which other projects plan to participate in the July update and 2)
    Educate projects on how to test their code "running" on Java 9.
    Ideally, as projects test using Java 9, there will be a synergy
    where projects will "educate each other" on what to look for
    (perhaps on a wiki, somewhere?). That is, Dani is just to explain
    the basics and the importance of testing with it, not necessarily to
    know each and every little thing that might need to be done or
    changed.*

<!-- end list -->

  - The remaining "new business" items are from previous meetings. I am
    not sure they resolved so left them for now.

:\* ''Wayne could not make the meeting, but posted a [message to our
mailing
list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02606.html)
about concern over some specific projects -- some of which may have to
be "removed" from the train. But, in addition, expressed concern over
"the process".

  -

      -
        \- ''I agree and commented on a similar issue on [cross-project
        list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg13122.html)
        about two projects who "declared intent", but thought they could
        join the build at the last minute. ''
        \- *I wondered out loud if it was time for more of a Sim.
        Release process where projects had to "prove they were ready to
        be in the Sim. Release" instead of us just saying what they
        needed to do, and then assume they were doing it. We did not
        discuss at this meeting, but, for example, I mean like a
        checklist (web app) that has to be updated every milestone? Just
        an idea.*

:\* A question was raised if people have to "announce" they will be in
"Neon.1" if they were in Neon. The answer was "no". \[Did not mention it
at meeting, but they should announce if they are NOT going to be in
Neon.1.\]

  -

      -
        \- This led to a brief discussion if projects should "rebuild"
        if their prereqs change. For example, if a security bug is found
        in an Orbit bundle. A few thought "yes", but seemed the
        consensus was "there was no way we could force them to" (i.e.
        can not leave them out, or else their "previous release" would
        still be there with the bad bundle) and it was probably a fringe
        enough case we did not need to have a rule about it.

:\* A question was raised how we can avoid issues such as with Neon
where Window Builder was excluded for Neon. They were ready at the very
very last minute but had not done any builds or testing for all of the
Neon development cycle. Somehow, we should "detect" when projects are
not active so we can approach them early to find out if the project is
viable if they are testing, etc.

## Next Meeting

  - November 2, 2016 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting

## Reference

  -
    Draft [Eclipse Project Branding
    Requirements](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/trademarks.php)
    (Wayne)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Neon Wiki page](Neon "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")