## Logistics

|                |                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Meeting Title: | **Planning Council Conference Call**                                                                                                                                                             |
| Date & Time:   | Wednesday, September 02, 2009, at [1600 UTC / 0900 SFO / 1200 NYC / 1700 London / 1800 Berlin](http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2009&month=9&day=2&hour=16&min=0&sec=0) |
| Dial-in:       | For the call-in numbers, see the "Project Review" number on [Foundation Portal](https://dev.eclipse.org/portal/myfoundation/portal/portal.php) page.                                             |

## Attendees

<table style="width:30%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 30%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>John Arthorne</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oliver Cole</p></td>
<td><p>Tptp (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Gaff</p></td>
<td><p>Dsdp (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Anthony Hunter</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Oisin Hurley</p></td>
<td><p>Stp (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Thomas Watson</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC) (appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>Strategic Reps</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Stefan Daume</p></td>
<td><p>Cloudsmith Inc.(Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Kaloyan Raev</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Christian Kurzke</p></td>
<td><p>Motorola (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>Appointed</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Mike Milinkovich</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>N</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p><br />
<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above attendance record.</small><br />
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small><br />
<small>N = No, did not</small><br />
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Inactive Members

<table style="width:30%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 30%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p> ?</p></td>
<td><p>Nokia (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p> ?</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p> ?</p></td>
<td><p>brox IT-Solutions GmbH (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p><br />
<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic">Strategic Members</a> we have not heard from in a year or so, and have been unable to convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Galileo SR1

Any issues?

*none report at meeting*

## Helios

### Goals

  - Simultaneous Release of participating projects

:\*Includes Simultaneous Milestones and testing (within the defined
windows)

  - Improve Eclipse by having extra release criteria

:\*These criteria, as previous years, need general agreement, and buy-in
from all projects represented by Planning Council.

:\*The criteria are primarily in the interest of Strategic Members to
improve adoption, and in most cases benefits end-users as well.

  - Provide a "Common Discovery" repository, primarily for end-users, so
    they can explore and discover interesting and useful function,
    without having to try so hard.

:\*This improves "early testing" of Projects, and eases migration to the
new release.

  - ~~(new?) Provide a single code repository for extenders and
    committers to ease their development.~~

:\*~~Is this one we really want to support? As committers, we often lean
this way ... but, it is more work to do right, and in some cases can be
at odds with the "ease of use" goal of a repository for end-users.~~

  -
    ''At meeting, this last item raised little discussion. Someone will
    need to champion it for us to add as a goal. ''

### Items to improve this year?

  - the aggregation process (previously misnamed "the build").
  - accessibility
  - capabilities: definitions, reuse, and contribution process?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    ''Note: This item was questioned "is it really needed" ... "are any
    adopters making use of it". The answer from most on PC was "no, not
    using". One said "yes, but just rolls their own, just uses to run
    off some UI". One (ok, me) said "yes, we'd like to, for complicated,
    large installs of multiple products with optional pieces, but is
    currently unworkable". It appeared no one else on the call was aware
    of the "progressive discovery" aspect of capabilities (which would
    be the one requiring the most work from cooperating projects). ''

<!-- end list -->

  - Structure and content of Common Discovery Site (e.g. categories,
    classifications, allowable content)

:\*minimal IDE runtimes vs. distributions for extenders

:\*how to distinguish and organize IDE functional tools from runtime
targets

:\*four divisions required? code, source, end-user doc, extender (sdk)
doc

  - How to track compliance?

:\*bugzilla vs. web app?

:\*Granularity of tracking (sub-Projects vs. Top Level Projects)?

  -
    *This last item (how to track) generated the most controversy.
    Several thought the bugzilla system wasn't great, but not sure bad
    enough to invest in improvements. But, several thought "was
    terrible" and unworkable. As someone who had to monitor all 33
    "projects" I agree its unworkable and not very meaningful.
    Conclusion: needs work.*

<!-- end list -->

  - Quick notes of comments from others at meeting

:\* Doug

  -

      -
        none, except that he didn't want to go first :)

:\*Neil

  -

      -
        The "must do" issue, and noted there are some items already in
        the "feedback notes" from last year.

:\*Tom Watson

  -

      -
        IP. How to avoid mistakes, like the "mis-release" of one project
        last year, which had to be removed.
        Wayne mentioned he knew this was an issue and he has an
        agreement with IP team to do more "manual" checking of IP logs
        compared to distributions. But more work needed to better
        automate. Also mentioned more could be done by mentors and PMC.
        *wtb For completeness, when an IP Log is submitted, I download
        the latest milestone build from the submitting project and
        compare the contents of that file with the log. I work with the
        project to resolve any discrepancies before greenlighting the IP
        team to do their review. IMHO, this is very late in the process;
        we need to make sure that problems are resolved earlier in the
        process. Perhaps we can draw on the Architecture Council
        mentors, and/or the PMCs to help*

:\*Brian Payton

  -

      -
        Was interested in marking bundles as 'code', 'source',
        'documentation' to improve ease of installs.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Most concerned with API compatibility and binary compatibility.
        I suggested adding a 'release criteria' that (at least) projects
        must document their policy.

:\*John Arthorne

  -

      -
        bugzilla tracking was awkward
        better document "why" important (John volunteered\!), such as
        "here's why it is in your best interest".
        We will need all projects to use some new "standard" license to
        property fit into new install dialogs (which groups items by
        license, to make that agreement step easier (or feasible?).

:\*Chris

  -

      -
        API tools and usage scans should be a "must do" (boos broke out
        in the virtual room). :)
        PDE team can help incorporate this in builds/tests (another
        volunteer\!)

:\*Kaloyan

  -

      -
        would like to see easier updates from one release to another.
        p2 errors are obscure

:\*Stefan

  -

      -
        Would like to see structure of common discovery site improved
        (was that another volunteer?)

:\*Cedric

  -

      -
        Would like to see more testing of packages fitting together,
        such as ui consistency, functional testing, etc.

:\*Oisin

  -

      -
        ease pain of 'compliance' of must do items
        he would like building-in api and usage tools (as a should-do
        item)

:\*Ed

  -

      -
        Can't burden projects with more 'must do' items (but ok to ask
        to document items).

:\*Wayne

  -

      -
        Granularity is problematic. Last year, "number of" projects was
        33 vs. 51 depending on how you counted.
        IP compliance issues. Would be better if logs were earlier.
          -
            My note after meeting: perhaps we could have more checking
            on a milestone-by-milestone basis? Especially if "diffs"
            could be generated automatically?

### Proposed (initial) process

  - Continuous Milestones (beginning with M1)
  - Form cross-project teams to come up with recommendations for
    Planning Council

:\*Anyone can participate, but I'd like to be only on invitation from
Planning Council, to be sure we have a balanced, but diverse
representation that mirrors the composition of the Planning Council.

:\*Planning council to act on those recommendations (one way or
another).

  - Not only better document and clarify criteria, but also refine their
    measuremet when possible (so, not just "yes or no', but, when
    possible "poor, medium, excellent", for example).
  - ~~Require a "planned compliance" statement as part of the "standard
    plan"?~~ *Not discussed at meeting. I doubt it would be useful
    wihtout a vastly improved "tracking" system, which will be hard
    enough to implement. *

### Proposed (initial) Cross-Project Teams

#### Aggregation

  -
    John Arthorne (Platform)
    Thomas Hallgren (Buckminster)

#### Accessibiity

  -
    Tammy Strum (IBM)
    Neil Hauge (Oracle)
    Kaloyan Raev (SAP)
    ACTF (they will decide exactly who later this week)

#### Capabilities

  -
    Tim deBoer (IBM/WTP)
    Oleg Besedin (Platform)

#### Structure of Common Discovery Site

  -
    ?

#### How to track

  -
    ?

### Helios Dates

*This info is here for reference. (It was previously approved by PC).
Will be moved to 'release document' soon.*

  -

      -
        M1 8/7 - 8/21
        M2 9/18 - 10/2
        Initial standard-format plans due 10/2
        M3 10/30 - 11/13
        M4 12/11 - 12/18 \[note: beginning of 1 week windows\]
        M5 1/29 - 2/5 \[seven week span from M4, to account for
        end-of-year holidays\]
        M6 3/12 - 3/19
        EclipseCon 3/22 - 3/25
        M7 4/30 - 5/7 \[seven week span from M6, to account for
        EclipseCon\]

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Release: 6/23/2010 (4th Wednesday of June)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    Notes regarding the +0, +1, +2, +3, EPP, and 'available' days
    :\*The first three milestones use a two-week window and the
    remaining milestones use 1-week windows.
    :\*The sub-deadline patterns within the windows are as follows:

| \+0    |     | \+1 | \+2 | \+3 | EPP | Available |
| ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --------- |
| Friday | Sat | Sun | Mon | Tue | Wed | Thur      |

2-week window pattern

  -

      -


| \+0    | \+1    | \+2     | \+3       | EPP      | Available |
| ------ | ------ | ------- | --------- | -------- | --------- |
| Friday | Monday | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday | Friday    |

1-week window pattern

::\*This pattern was arrived at with a couple of considerations: a) it
is very important that teams have a consistent rhythm (so, for example,
easier for a team to "always deliver on Tuesday" rather than Monday's
some milestones, Thursdays other milestones, etc. b) it represents the
**latest** possible time to produce common-discovery site ... teams can,
still, either on their own or work with other projects to do their final
builds earlier, making their delivery available earlier to specific
teams or test groups.

::\*Remember, the +n categories represent **latest** possible time to
complete what is required of common discovery site (generally, at noon,
Eastern time, of the day). Teams have to do their builds and testing
before these common-site deadlines.

::\*In general, teams often have complicated inter-dependencies which
are not captured by the simple "+1", "+2" descriptions. In those cases,
it is up to those projects to work out their detailed inter-dependencies
and agree to a processes to satisfy what they need from each other. The
dates and deadlines listed by Planning Council, apply only to the final
deliverable to the common repository.

## Review Planning Council/Galileo postmortem

  -

      -
        We'll continually review [the list of
        comments](Galileo_postmortem.md) to
        make sure issues are addressed, action plans made, owners found,
        etc.

## ToDo Items

(volunteers welcome)

  - create (and update) [helios container
    plan](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/project-plan.php?projectid=helios)
    (Wayne volunteered)

<!-- end list -->

  - coordinate community input for next year's name

## Next Meeting

  -
    [October 7, Wednesday](October_07_2009.md),
    Noon Eastern Time.

## Reference

[Helios Simultaneous Release](Helios_Simultaneous_Release "wikilink")

[Planning Council
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

[Simultaneous_Release_Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
and
[Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")