## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, September 2, 2015, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2015&amp;month=09&amp;day=02&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>John Arthorne (occasional)</p></td>
<td><p>Cloud (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Steffen Pingel (Sam Davis)</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>D</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Nick Boldt</p></td>
<td><p>Redhat (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Remi Schnekenburger</p></td>
<td><p>CEA List (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y?</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Rajeev Dayal</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - ?

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before meeting, but if questions or
    issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time to bring
    them up.

## Mars Planning

  - Any issues?

<!-- end list -->

  - How is the "minor releases" in Mars.1 update going?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- From the little I've seen, no radical change, but some change.
    \- Some just being "more honest" about it (that's good).
    \- Have seen the issue where changing "provisional API" to "API" is
    reason for the minor bump
      -
        But, this can be "breaking" for anyone who was trying to use the
        provisional API (depending).
        Should we give any guidance in this area?
    \- Have seen where "new features" would break translations.
      -
        Should we give any guidance in this area?
    \- I see where WTP is adding a "controversial" feature (but, just
    controversial "if its ready").
      -
        That is, nothing violates Planning Council rules.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        *Wayne reported there had been about 6 release reviews for minor
        releases.*

## Neon Planning

  - See initial working draft of plan at
    [Neon/Simultaneous_Release_Plan](Neon/Simultaneous_Release_Plan "wikilink").
  - Continuing Discussion of if and how to change "yearly release"?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \* - See ["design" wiki
    page](SimRel/ChangingProcessAndTiming "wikilink"), which acts as
    centralized place to document the main ideas and plans.
    \* - Rough scheduling alternatives ... what do we want to
    accomplish?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \* Current
      -
        \- June (3) September (5) February \[(4) June\]

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \* Current plus one (equally spaced)
      -
        \- June (3) September (3) December (3) March \[(3) June\]

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Advantage; similar to current
        Disadvantage: hard and bad to release in (mid) December?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \* Equally spaced (based on May)
      -
        \- May, (3) August, (3) November, (3) February \[(3) May\]

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Advantages: predictable; each roughly 2, 6 week milestones
        Disadvantage: arbitrary?
        have to work around Thanksgiving holiday

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \* quick plus long
      -
        \- June, (2) August, (5) January, (2) March \[(3) June\]

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Advantage: can have quick "service" after main releases,
        those features/projects that "just barely missed" main release
        points (June and January) won't have long to wait.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        Disadvantage: does not easily map to 6 week milestones
        still has as long period (5 months) of "no releases"
        but, that long period can be good for committers -- to have long
        period to focus on one stream.

<!-- end list -->

  - Any new requirements?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \* In "signing section", I would like to add that jars that are
    already signed, must not be re-signed.
      -
        It messes up pack200 "conditioning"

<!-- end list -->

  - Discussion of the timing of an extra update release

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- End result was the direction should be
      -
        June (3) September (3) December (3) March \[(3) June\]

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- General agreement to keep June as the month for the main (major)
    release
      -
        \- Partially just to keep with long tradition -- long enough it
        is an ingrained expectation from community.
        \- Partially to fit better with the naturally occurring "summer
        down time" due to vacations and holidays.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Rough agreement that the goal of an extra update release was to
    solve the problem of new projects and new features joining the
    train.
      -
        \- The problem of individual projects needing to roll-out
        important fixes "off schedule" is not addressed by having an
        extra release, and should (probably) be addressed by changes in
        EPP packaging or perhaps only the Sim. Release repository
        (which, would require some change in EPP "features", but avoid
        "all new" downloads).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- There was some discussion of having, say, the 1st and 3rd updates
    be "service only", and middle (December-ish) update release be
    "minor upgrades", but in general, thought that would be confusing,
    restrictive, and would not solve main problem of "getting function
    out to users".

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Another strong candidate for "rhythm" was to stick with the
    current 3 per year, but move the September one, to October, so there
    is more balance of "waiting period" between update releases (4
    months each, instead of current 3 months and 5 months).
      -
        \- It was thought this would not work well for Neon updates,
        since we want a September release that matches Java 9 release
        (which is currently scheduled for September 22 -
        <http://openjdk.java.net/projects/jdk9/> ).
        \- Also some mentioned easier for adopters and contributors to
        work based on a quarterly schedule.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- It was explicitly decided to leave Mars as-planned (that is,
    Mars.2 in February, not December) partially since many plans based
    on that already, and partially to allow more issues to be ironed
    out, and partially to allow time to improve testing of Sim. Release
    repository -- such as to add "API Tooling checks".

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Wayne took as a "to do" item, to check with IP staff if a CQ
    deadline should be set for update releases.
      -
        \- Cons (probably not needed): there are few new ones, every one
        knows the limits
        \- Pros (would be helpful): helps set expectations of committers
        and new contributors on how much can be done, by when.
          -
            (Though, still varies a lot, if "all new" large
            contribution, vs. piggy back CQ)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Another issue to carry is effect on translations. Both those done
    by Babel, and those done by adopters. Should we try to get projects
    to document changes to PII? Are there any tools in Babel that could
    "diff" what has changed?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Another issues to carry is what guidance (or rules) to mention
    about "changing API". In particular, should "provisional API" be
    treated as API, or non-API? Some quick remarks was "there is not
    much we can do ... if doesn't impact train projects ... would be up
    to each project to decide, and up to adopters to follow closely".
    Can we do better?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- There was a brief discussion of if more "parallel streams" would
    help. That is, currently the "culture" at Eclipse is primarily to
    work on new features after one release, for the next update release.
    But, in general, overlapping work efforts and releases might suit
    some teams better. (Such as, after June, could work on new features
    for December, putting minimal effort into September release -- and
    while teams can "do this on their own", would there be advantages
    (or need) to having a coordinated effort -- involving several
    "coordinated release repositories" for teams to contribute to early?
    \-- Some mentioned projects do not have enough resources to do that
    much work?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Speaking of resources, it was also mentioned that the "4 releases
    per year" would be more effort for projects (committers) since even
    if they do not contribute to a update release, they should still
    test their stuff with each new update. Improved automated testing
    might help some, with this.

## New Business

  - ?

## Next Meeting

  - October 7, 2015 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting

## Reference

  -
    2013 EclipseCon face-to-face follow-through action items. For
    original meeting notes, see
    [March_24_2013](Planning_Council/March_24_2013.md)
    and for discussion leading to action items, see
    [April_10_2013](Planning_Council/April_10_2013.md).
    For last status update, see
    [May_8_2013](Planning_Council/May_8_2013.md).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Mars Wiki page](Mars "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")