## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, September 4, 2013, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2013&amp;month=09&amp;day=04&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992 (new number), 1-877-369-7806 (old number)</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Steffen Pingel</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>D</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Gary Xue</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>Innoopract (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Markus Tiede</p></td>
<td><p>BREDEX (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Rajeev Dayal</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while, and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - ?

## Kepler SR1

  - Two (known, approved) exceptions to "new features in SR1": Linux
    Tools, Stardust

<!-- end list -->

  - Any issues?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *None mentioned*

## Luna Planning

  - Do we have agreement on the Luna Milestone/Release schedule:
    [Luna/Simultaneous_Release_Plan\#Schedule](Luna/Simultaneous_Release_Plan#Schedule "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *everyone agreed*

<!-- end list -->

  - Topics for possible discussion:

:\* Who should we scold the most for not communicating well? :)

:\* Change policy on disabling all in M1 to require "actively joining"?

::\* Related to Wayne's proposal on new "how to join" method:
<http://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02190.html>

  -

      -
        Key aspects:
          -
            Projects to send note to cross-project list. (How to handle
            "individual projects" vs. those that release as a "group",
            e.g. WTP?, Platform?)
            Planning Council (or, Wayne) enters their "entry" and +n
            date in database.
            Deadline? M4 seems "late" for those already in? We've said
            "once in, always in". Hence, how does this interact with
            "disabling in aggregation"?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    ''General agreement, though some questions still to work out ... ''
    ''Action items: ''
    *Wayne will send note to Cross-project "in a day or two". For Luna,
    he will start with initial data from b3aggrcon files that have had
    contributions enabled.*
    ''DW to open 2 bugs: ''
      -
        ''1) What are best "deadlines", in relation to b3aggrcon files.
        The idea would be be something like "for those already in train,
        they would "stay enabled" until after M1", then if had not been
        heard from on cross-project list, they would be disabled. If not
        heard by end of M3, they would be removed (since M4 is deadline
        to be "in", even for new comers). ''
        *2) open (or find, and change priority of existing bug), that
        b3aggrcon files would be changed to conform to "project name"
        pattern.*

:\* Should "we" say anything about Java 5 vs. Java 6? (Have we already?)

  -

      -
        *Not really, we already mention it in
        [SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements\#Target_Environments](SimRel/Simultaneous_Release_Requirements#Target_Environments "wikilink").*
        *Neil added agenda item to Arch. Council to discuss best
        practices around
        [Execution_Environments](Execution_Environments "wikilink")*

:\* Should we revisit the policy about "release one month prior to SR"?

::\* How can (or should) we better capture what new features are in an
SR for adopters awareness?

  -

      -
        *There was agreement "we needed something", but flexible on
        exactly what.*
        *Doug took action item of working on wording of new policy for
        Planning Council consideration and approval ... it'd be
        something like "feature freeze by (and in) RC1 and Release
        Review Materials complete by RC1". Release Materials would
        include "new feature" descriptions for adopters, so that'd be
        covered.*

## On going discussions

\[Can we turn this first one into an action item, owned by someone?\]

  - Do we need, or how can we help enable, "more frequent releases"?
    Including what, exactly, that means. Such as, currently projects can
    release whenever they want, but the issue seemed to be on EPP
    packages and/or "prime real estate" of "Eclipse Foundations
    Downloads" page?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *We didn't address specifically, but may be covered by policy item
    above and Doug's work below?*.

<!-- end list -->

  - Doug mentioned taking over releng role? (Was going to work on
    prototype before making specific proposal) \[Doug\]

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Doug briefly mentioned he was still working on prototype, but he
    didn't see it "taking the place" of any existing thing ... but,
    would be "an IDE Installer" ... perhaps yet another package that
    could be Downloaded from main EF DL page?*

## Progress on Action Items

  - Editing of "Requirements Document"? (Dani and Neil)
  - GSoC project for "Development Channel"? (Wayne)
  - Improved "aggregator examples/doc". (dw -- no progress).
  - \[Orbit plan "by end of August". (dw -- no progress -- will likely
    be late, still "in September")\]
  - Need to improve [Luna](Luna "wikilink") wiki page (dw)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *No status updates given*

## Kepler Retrospective

For reference, see
[Juno_retrospective](Planning_Council/Juno_retrospective.md).

  - what worked:

<!-- end list -->

  - what could be better:

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *We'll try again next month*

## Next Meeting

  - October 2, 2013 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting

## Reference

  -
    EclipseCon face-to-face follow-through action items. For original
    meeting notes, see
    [March_24_2013](Planning_Council/March_24_2013.md)
    and for discussion leading to action items, see
    [April_10_2013](Planning_Council/April_10_2013.md).
    For last status update, see
    [May_8_2013](Planning_Council/May_8_2013.md).

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Luna Wiki page](Luna "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Kepler Wiki page](Kepler "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council/Juno
    retrospective](Juno_retrospective.md)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")