## Logistics

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Meeting Title:</p></td>
<td><p><strong>Planning Council Conference Call</strong></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Date &amp; Time:</p></td>
<td><p>Wednesday, June 8, 2016, at <a href="http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2016&amp;month=06&amp;day=08&amp;hour=12&amp;min=0&amp;sec=0&amp;p1=179">1200 Noon Eastern</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dial in:</p></td>
<td><p>(See <a href="Asterisk" title="wikilink">Asterisk</a> service for complete details on SIP, potential new numbers, phone mute commands, etc.)</p>
<p>Phone Numbers: (Check <a href="Asterisk/Numbers" title="wikilink">Asterisk/Numbers</a> for more or current phone numbers.)</p>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd><strong>For all phone lines: Participant conference extension: 710 then enter pin 35498</strong>
</dd>
</dl>
<ul>
<li>Ottawa (local call in Ottawa) 1-613-454-1403</li>
<li>North America (toll free) 1-866-569-4992</li>
<li>Germany (local call anywhere in Germany) +49-692-2224-6059</li>
<li>France (local call anywhere in France) +33-17-070-8535</li>
<li>UK (toll free) 0800-033-7806</li>
<li>Switzerland (local call anywhere in Switzerland) +41-44-580-2115</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>SIP clients:</li>
</ul>
<dl>
<dt></dt>
<dd>call 710@asterisk.eclipse.org, then enter pin 35498.
</dd>
</dl></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Members and Attendees

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>PMC (and Strategic) Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Martin Lippert</p></td>
<td><p>Cloud (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chris Aniszczyk</p></td>
<td><p>Technology (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Dani Megert</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Sam Davis</p></td>
<td><p>Mylyn (ALM) PMC</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Brian Payton</p></td>
<td><p>Datatools (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Doug Schaefer</p></td>
<td><p>Tools (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ian Bull</p></td>
<td><p>Rt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Chuck Bridgham</p></td>
<td><p>WTP (PMC)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Wayne Beaton</p></td>
<td><p>Eclipse Foundation (appointed)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>David Williams</p></td>
<td><p>(appointed Chair)</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Strategic Reps</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Marc Khouzam</p></td>
<td><p>Ericsson</p></td>
<td><p>Y</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Alexander Nyssen</p></td>
<td><p>itemis AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Nick Boldt</p></td>
<td><p>Redhat (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>R</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Remi Schnekenburger</p></td>
<td><p>CEA List (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Cedric Brun</p></td>
<td><p>OBEO (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Neil Hauge</p></td>
<td><p>Oracle (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Stephan Merker</p></td>
<td><p>SAP AG (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Markus Knauer</p></td>
<td><p>EPP (appointed)</p></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(has PMC rep; Dani Megert)</p></td>
<td><p>IBM (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>width="100%" valign="top"</p></td>
<td></td>
<td><table>
<caption><strong>Inactive</strong></caption>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[no name]</p></td>
<td><p>CA Inc. (Strategic Consumer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Gary Xue)</p></td>
<td><p>Birt (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>(has/had PMC rep)</p></td>
<td><p>Actuate (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>(was Rajeev Dayal)</p></td>
<td><p>Google (Strategic Developer)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Ed Merks</p></td>
<td><p>Modeling (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>X</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Adrian Mos (Marc Dutoo )</p></td>
<td><p>SOA (PMC)</p></td>
<td><p>R(2)</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<small>Note: "Inactive" refers to [Strategic
Members](http://www.eclipse.org/membership/showMembersWithTag.php?TagID=strategic)
or PMCs we have not heard from for a while and have been unable to
convince to participate. Those members can become active again at any
time. Contact David Williams if questions.</small>

<small>Note: feel free to correct any errors/omissions in above
attendance record.</small>
<small>Y = Yes, attended</small>
<small>N = No, did not</small>
<small>R = regrets sent ahead of time</small>
<small>D = delegated</small>
<small>X = not expected</small>

## Announcements

  - Special Guest: Fred Gurr

*Fred introduced himself as the "new Eclipse Foundation release
engineer" and started that job around July 1. He said he will learn how
to do the aggregation builds with Mikael being his backup (if I heard
right :).*

## Previous meeting minutes

  - Review [previous meeting minutes](../Planning_Council.md) if
    you'd like. That is, review them before the meeting, but if
    questions or issues with previous minutes, this would be a good time
    to bring them up.

## Neon maintenance

  - Nearing Neon.1. Any issues?

<!-- end list -->

  - WindowBuild is back in RC3 at the declared version level (1.9.0).
  - BPMN2 Modeler is back in since RC1 at 1.3.1 level.

<!-- end list -->

  - Will soon need a Neon.1 info center ()
  - Create New and Noteworthy for Neon.1 ()

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Wayne did volunteer to do N\&N for Neon.1

## Oxygen Planning

  - There has been a lot of discussion about "giving up release name"
    and using "date" instead. See .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Further discussion in the meeting lead to the idea that one thing
    that is missing is what DO we call the "thing" we are releasing.
    "Eclipse Neon" seems too vague and definitely sounds like a
    different thing than "Eclipse Mars" (even if you add "release". Some
    quick suggestions were "Eclipse IDE - Neon Version" or similar (with
    dates, probably).
      - \- ACTION ITEM: Doug said he would try to re-ignite the
        discussion via blog or similar.
      - \- Main point is that we owe the community some response on bug
        493490 about what our plan will be.

*During today's meeting, it was decided that we can not "solve" for
Oxygen, but we can probably make incremental improvement. After that
incremental improvement, we may have a better idea of the core problem
to fix. As things are now, there is little chance of getting agreement
on what the problem is or how to fix it. It is sort of like now the
problem is "things are confusing" -- a little too broad to fix all at
once. I will comment in  that we don't want to abandon the name, but
that in general, any place the "code name" is used there needs to be
more information, such as version or date or build id (depending on
context). Also, I think that "check for update" should give some
indication that a "whole new stream" is available -- as the Installer
currently does.*

  - Should we change "initial disable" practice? (See .)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Is this an actual problem, or working as designed?
      -
        \- If working as designed, perhaps we should at least improve
        expectations, somehow.
    \- Or is there a way to improve "automation"? Such as, once "declare
    intent" they automatically get "re-enabled" (even if project intends
    to change contribution at some point).
    \- Or, at least, can we improve documentation?

*It did not take long to reach a consensus that it "punishes" those that
are trying to do things well, and does not give us very good data on
'who is not participating'. Hence we will return to "leave enabled"
(except when a project explicitly withdraws). AND we will come up with
some other ways to check on who is not participating (in the sense of
"paying attention"). Some brainstormed ideas of doing that were: check
if Git revision of aggrcon file has changed from milestone to milestone
or check if feature versions have changed from one stream to another.
Those things not changing would be "red flags" and cause some questions
to be sent to the project. M4 will remain (or return) as the deadline to
formally declare (for everyone, old and new projects) even though there
is an implicit "opt-in" for M1. Part of the reason to wait until M4 is
that most projects are not even thinking about "the next major release"
... they are working on update releases and the input to the update
release and the "next" one is the same -- especially now that we have
gone to quarterly updates.*

  - Two projects "leaving":

:\* ECF (See [Sam's post to PC
list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02637.html)).

:\* Riena (See [Christian's post to cross-project
list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg13583.html)
and  mentioned in that post).

*We discussed if a) this was a sign that things were too hard and b) if
projects using a non-participating project was going to cause problems.
None of us have heard concrete cases of "item a" and it seems to be more
a matter of "other things becoming more important" to the committers on
those projects. As for "item b", it may or may not be a problem. Since
we can not "force" projects to participate and since it would be
detrimental to say that projects could not "include" non-participating
project releases our only option seems to wait until there is a known
problem, and then solve as they come up. The solution could be that some
part of the "required prereq" moves to a project that depends on it. Or,
perhaps someone else becomes a commtter on that prereq project to make
fixes that they need it to have.*

### old (ongoing) stuff

  - Release Policy vs. Release mechanics. This is being tracked in .

<!-- end list -->

  -
    In M6 we changed to have (nearly) all features to be "root features.
    Now what? That is, can we "stop" adding "reference repositories" via
    feature p2.inf files?

<!-- end list -->

  - "Rolling release" issue.

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        I have sometimes heard it suggested we allow more of a
        "continuous release". Is this something we should discuss?
        Should we have some long term planning for it? Such as, what
        would it take to accomplish that?
        This could be planned with or without the "beta stream"
        mechanisms sometimes discussed.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    '' Did not discuss much during this meeting, other than to note
    similarity to above issue.''

<!-- end list -->

  - Should the ability to update from yearly release to yearly release
    be a 'requirement'?

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        **Impossible now, for Neon. Right? (for EPP Packages) Do we
        still need "streamless-URL" now?** I am assuming "no".

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        **ACTION ITEM** from 6/8 meeting. Doug volunteered to "take up"
        this item to better specify "what does it mean" and "what will
        it take" to update across major releases. \[Doug, it is up to
        you, but I suggest you form a small team of like 3 people, such
        as Ian and Dani or, others who know some of the technical
        issues, to help if they are able and willing.\] The goal being
        just a more specific statement of what it means, and what
        projects have to do differently for Oxygen. That is, we don't
        need to reach Nirvana in one release cycle.''

<!-- end list -->

  -

      -
        What would this take? (Such as features are never "just removed"
        but are replaced or transitioned?)
        Preferences, views, etc. have to "migrate" (if their ID
        changes).
        What testing would projects have to do?
        May become "defacto requirement" once  is implemented.
          -
            For Neon we will not have a "streamless" URL, since "won't
            work" for upgrading to Neon for the EPP packages.

## New Business

  - Dani: Does any feature, independent how small (e.g. new option),
    force a release review for the Update release? Does it require full
    review doc, or is there a way to report just the features + e.g. new
    IP log?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    \- Good question, for Wayne? I think technically the answer is "yes"
    unless something has been simplified?

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Wayne said "yes". He did mention an "Architecture bug" () he has
    opened to consider a modification to the EDP to lighten the release
    burden, but that is a longer term issue. He did mention some
    alternatives that might fit some cases: a) it is up to the PMC is
    they think something small such as a "new preference" needs a "minor
    increment". Perhaps "service increment" would suffice in some cases.
    And, b) those that do need to have a formal release need not make it
    as long and elaborate as they do for their yearly major release.
    Just a short statement of the new feature (and release date) would
    usually suffice. But, they do still need a normal "IP Log".*

<!-- end list -->

  - In a similar vein, who is responsible for the "New and Noteworthy"?
    I think Wayne did a "combined one" for the initial release. From
    looking at the [version comparison
    reports](https://hudson.eclipse.org/simrel/job/simrel.neon.runaggregator.BUILD__CLEAN/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/aggregation/final/buildInfo/reporeports/reports/versionChecksFeatures.html)
    it appears about 10 projects have "new minor increments" ... plus
    the two that have "rejoined" the train. I have opened  to cover the
    specifics. But, am not sure who is the responsible "author" of the
    document.

<!-- end list -->

  -
    *Wayne graciously agreed to be in charge of the Neon.1 N\&N. The
    hardest part, for him, is deciding what is "general user oriented"
    which is what he thinks this combined N\&N should focus on.*

<!-- end list -->

  - *A "new business" item that we did not have time to discuss was
    about the impact of the new levels of IP. Do we, as Planning
    Council, want to stipulate a participating project must be of "type
    B"? Or, do we not care? It may depend on "how labeled"? But he will
    open a bug and/or we will discuss at the next meeting. See and
    comment in .*

<!-- end list -->

  - The remaining "new business" items are from previous meetings. I am
    not sure they resolved so left them for now.

:\* ''Wayne could not make the meeting, but posted a [message to our
mailing
list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/eclipse.org-planning-council/msg02606.html)
about concern over some specific projects -- some of which may have to
be "removed" from the train. But, in addition, expressed concern over
"the process".

  -

      -
        \- ''I agree and commented on a similar issue on [cross-project
        list](https://dev.eclipse.org/mhonarc/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg13122.html)
        about two projects who "declared intent", but thought they could
        join the build at the last minute. ''
        \- *I wondered out loud if it was time for more of a Sim.
        Release process where projects had to "prove they were ready to
        be in the Sim. Release" instead of us just saying what they
        needed to do, and then assume they were doing it. We did not
        discuss at this meeting, but, for example, I mean like a
        checklist (web app) that has to be updated every milestone? Just
        an idea.*

:\* A question was raised if people have to "announce" they will be in
"Neon.1" if they were in Neon. The answer was "no". \[Did not mention it
at meeting, but they should announce if they are NOT going to be in
Neon.1.\]

  -

      -
        \- This led to a brief discussion if projects should "rebuild"
        if their prereqs change. For example, if a security bug is found
        in an Orbit bundle. A few thought "yes", but seemed the
        consensus was "there was no way we could force them to" (i.e.
        can not leave them out, or else their "previous release" would
        still be there with the bad bundle) and it was probably a fringe
        enough case we did not need to have a rule about it.

:\* A question was raised how we can avoid issues such as with Neon
where Window Builder was excluded for Neon. They were ready at the very
very last minute but had not done any builds or testing for all of the
Neon development cycle. Somehow, we should "detect" when projects are
not active so we can approach them early to find out if the project is
viable if they are testing, etc.

## Next Meeting

  - October 5, 2016 - Regular First Wednesday Meeting

## Reference

  -
    Draft [Eclipse Project Branding
    Requirements](http://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/trademarks.php)
    (Wayne)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Neon Wiki page](Neon "wikilink")

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Planning Council
    Members](http://www.eclipse.org/org/foundation/council.php#planning)

<!-- end list -->

  -
    [Simultaneous Release Roles](Simultaneous_Release_Roles "wikilink")
    and [Simultaneous Release
    Roles/EMO](Simultaneous_Release_Roles/EMO "wikilink")